Is COVIDE19 weakening?
According to some doctors and hospital managers, the strength of the virus has diminished.
Over the last few weeks, the authorities have been warning us that coronavirus is still with us and that care must be taken.
To be sure, precautions must be maintained, even if what some researchers claim is true: that the virus is losing strength and is not as virulent as at the beginning of the pandemic.
That is what Sara Lumbreras, a researcher at the Institute of Technology Research (IIT), is trying to uncover, saying that "current cases of coronavirus may be lighter, but there are several possible explanations."
What could be the causes?
According to some doctors and hospital managers, the strength of the virus has been attenuated, either by the effect of ultraviolet radiation or by the existence of more benign mutated strains.
But Lumbreras emphasizes that, for the time being, the evidence supporting these views is limited.
Our working group has attempted to confirm or disprove the weakening hypothesis with the statistics published so far: the low quality of the available data timidly points to the weakening without conclusive evidence.
Exploring this hypothesis is key to the importance of its implications. "
For the IIT researcher, a possible weakening could be due to the impact of heat and ultraviolet radiation, or the virus is mutating, although "more sequencing studies are needed to confirm what evolution the virus is experiencing."
Lumbreras recalls that the weakening could be due simply to the fact that the population that has been affected is now stronger (for example, that outbreaks are concentrated in young working-age individuals who have returned to their daily activities to a greater extent).
In addition, "we now understand the disease better and begin to treat it sooner," says the researcher.
Finally, containment could have limited not only the number of infections, but also their severity.
This would be the case if the intensity of symptoms depends on viral load, and viral load is limited by social distancing.
Indeed, the researcher recalls that all of this "does not change the fact that we should continue to maintain that social distancing and that masquerades or hand hygiene remain a key part of our routines" and calls for more research and transparent data on the evolution of the pandemic.