From July 13, the mandatory wearing of masks on the streets of Moscow is abolished
Irinabal18 / Depositphotos.com
Sergei Sobyanin signed a decree that removes most of the restrictions previously imposed in connection with the spread of the new coronavirus infection (Decree of the Mayor of Moscow of 9 July 2020 No. 77-UM).
From July 13, wearing masks and respirators on the streets of Moscow will not be necessary, but their use is recommended.
However, it remains mandatory to wear masks and gloves in shops, health facilities, public transport, taxis, other public places, and to respect social distance.
Educational institutions will be operational from 13 July.
It will be possible to visit universities in person, and it is possible to take examinations in accordance with the order established by the Ministry of Education and Science of Russia and the administrations of higher education institutions.
Sports, music and art schools, other educational organizations and courses will be opened for children and adults.
In his blog, the Mayor of Moscow noted that the full school year is scheduled to start as usual on 1 September.
Restrictions will be lifted on attractions, cultural parks, leisure organizations, children 's camps and entertainment centres.
The section and clubs, discotheques and entertainment activities will be reopened with a maximum number of visitors of 50% of the maximum capacity of the sites.
For entrepreneurs, restrictions on the provision of services to the public and other activities will be lifted, except for the need to comply with sanitary requirements.
Employers will be able to decide for themselves whether to maintain a remote working regime or to return employees to their offices.
At the same time, the requirements to ensure the measurement of body temperature of workers in the workplace, the conduct of studies on the presence of coronavirus among workers and other requirements laid down in annex 6 to the Decree of the Mayor of Moscow of 5 March 2020 No. 12-UM remain.
All important documents and news about COVID-19 coronavirus - in daily mailing Subscribe
Theatres, cinemas and concert halls with a capacity not exceeding 3,000 will be reopened from 1 August.
seats and with a condition of not more than 50 per cent of the audience.
The number of spectators at sporting events will increase from 10% to 50% of the maximum capacity of the stands.
The work of the circles and sections of the program "Moscow Longevity" will be possible from 1 August only if the classes are held in the open air.
All organizations opened must comply with sanitary requirements.
Thus, there is a continuing ban on the holding of mass entertainment and recreation events (except under specified conditions), public events in the open air and on the smoking of kalyan in restaurants, bars and cafes.
The dates for lifting the remaining restrictions will be announced further.
The Mayor also noted that, in the event of a worsening of the epidemiological situation, the restoration of certain facilities could be postponed.