Scientists date the appearance of the coronavirus in Wuhan to October 2019.
Moscow.
22 March.
INTERFAX.RU - Researchers at the University of California, San Diego Medical School, the University of Arizona, and Illumina have determined that SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus began circulating in China in mid-October 2019.
According to the University of California Press, their work was published in Science.
The authors of the study used molecular dating to estimate the frequency of mutations and epidemiological modelling.
They took into account detailed information about the spread of coronavirus in Uhani before the outbreak, the genetic diversity of the virus in China, and the first descriptions of coronavirus infection that appeared in December 2019.
They concluded that SARS-CoV-2 began circulating in Hubei Province in mid-October, but it was not observed until December and was extremely rare, according to Joel O. Verthaie, research director, associate professor of infectious diseases and global public health at the University of California, San Diego Medical School.
By April 2020, the Chinese authorities had placed severe restrictions on the spread of the virus, but by that time COVID-19 had been detected in more than 100 countries and the pandemic had begun.
The simulation also showed that under certain conditions 70.3% of cases would have infected relatively few people and would have died without causing an epidemic.
The original strain of SARS-CoV-2 became epidemic because it began to spread in urban settings where infection was easier.
Given that there were few viruses even in China before December, Wertheim is highly skeptical about reports that European countries have found the virus, as shown by the analysis of preserved blood samples.
Wertheim notes that people were not prepared for SARS-CoV-2 because doctors were preparing for something like SARS 2003 or Middle East respiratory syndrome MERS 2012-2015, with high mortality rates.
However, it turned out that a virus with a relatively low mortality rate, well-transmitted, could be devastating worldwide.
"" src = "https: / / www.interfax.ru / ftproot / textphotos / 2021 / 05 / 12 / raab _ 700.jpg" >