What have we learned about Covid-19 in six months?
Anatomy of the coronavirus
The killer's trail.
The investigation of an outbreak of a dangerous disease is very similar to that of an investigator.
First, you have to arrive at the crime scene before the evidence disappears; then you have to interrogate witnesses for a long time, and then you start chasing the killer to warn him of the next hit.
But despite concerted international efforts, the coronavirus continues to strike, killing thousands of people every day................
What have scientists discovered in the past six months?
Alert
Understanding the origin of any virus is crucial to predict how it will affect our health and how quickly it can spread.
But the coronavirus has taken us by surprise from the beginning.
While the world was preparing to meet the New Year, Dr. Lee Wenliang worked in the emergency department of Wuhan Central Hospital, where seven patients suffering from pneumonia - lung infections - were quarantined.
On December 30, he shared his worst fears with colleagues in a group chat with WeChat - Lee predicted the onset of a new wave of SARS (Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome).
SARS, another type of coronavirus, first appeared in China in 2003 and spread to 26 countries, infecting over 8,000 people.
However, Dr. Lee did not discover the second wave of SARS, but the first traces of the Covid-19 virus (SARS-CoV-2).
Professor Jorge Calil at his home in S達o Paulo
According to Chinese media reports, three days after sending colleagues a message warning of a possible outbreak of the disease, Li was arrested by police along with eight other doctors for "spreading rumors."
Shortly after returning to work, Dr. Lee became ill with Covid-19.
He died on 7 February, aged 34, leaving behind a son and a pregnant wife.
Market surge
At the Huananya seafood market in the new part of the city, retailers from their small stalls traded everything from live birds to fish, reptiles and wild animals.
But in the last weeks of December 2019, when warnings of a possible outbreak of the virus were getting louder, doctors first noticed a new pattern - most of their patients were working in the seafood market in Havana.
On 31 December, the Wuhan Health Commission presented its first official report to Beijing.
The next day, the market was closed to quarantine.
Police near the wholesale seafood market in Huana
Today, scientists agree that the seafood market has been the focus of a major outbreak, but it seems unlikely that the virus first appeared here.
Tests of Covid-19 in humans and live animals on the market have since yielded positive results.
However, according to medical researchers in Wuhan, the earliest case of coronavirus in humans was subsequently discovered almost four weeks before the outbreak on the market: an elderly man from Wuhan, who had symptoms as early as 1 December 2019, was unrelated to the seafood market.
Covid-19 symptoms were detected as early as 1 December....
As early as January, when health-care workers in Wuhan watched the disease grow rapidly in urban hospitals, no one could have predicted the terrible rate at which the virus would spread not only to China, but to the entire Asian continent, and then to the world.
On January 11, just nine days after the first recorded death of a Covid-19 patient, new cases were already reported in Japan, South Korea and Thailand.
And so began the pursuit of a killer in which, despite all the world's advances in medicine and technology, we were always one step behind...
In just six months, Covid-19 spread to 188 countries and infected more than 8 million people.
Portrait of the Killer
The first question is always, what is it?
- Says immunologist Professor Christian Andersen.
Anderson's laboratory specializes in the genomics of infectious diseases.
They study the spread of viruses from animals to humans.
Like a third of the world's population, Professor Christian Andersen lives and works in isolation
As early as the end of December, just a few hours after the first patients were admitted to hospital, scientists from the Wuhan Institute of Virology were already analyzing the nasal smears of the mysterious virus.
They were looking for its genome - a complete genetic code that would show exactly what it was for and how it spread.
The genome can easily be described as a long chain of letters - for example, the human genome consists of more than three billion genetic letters.
The common flu virus consists of 15,000 letters, and in that chain are encoded all the instructions that the virus may need to reproduce itself millions of times, which will lead to an epidemic.
It usually takes months, sometimes years, to decipher the virus genome.
But as early as January 10, scientists at the Wuhan Institute of Virology, headed by Professor Yong-Zhen Zhang, published the first genome sequence Covid-19 - the first and perhaps the most important part of the puzzle.
Coronavirus
"As soon as we saw this first sequence, we immediately realized that it was a type of coronavirus and that it was 80% SARS-like," says Professor Andersen.
Coronavirus is a large family of viruses, hundreds of which, as far as we know, are distributed to animals such as pigs, camels, bats and cats...........
Covid-19 is only the seventh known coronavirus to have survived from animal to human.
"The second question - how to diagnose it - leads to testing and understanding of transmission mechanisms," says Professor Andersen.
And the third question is, how do we develop a vaccine?
All these questions can be answered with a genetic "blueprint" of the virus.
According to Anderson, there is irrefutable evidence that the virus first appeared in bats.
It all started with bats.
We know it 's a completely natural virus, because bats have a lot of similar viruses, "he explains.
- What we don't know, because he got into the human population. "
Andersen's team examined another coronavirus found in a bat that is 96% identical to Covid-19.
They also saw strong similarities to other similar viruses found in pangolins, mammals in Asia, which are often the subject of illegal animal trafficking.
Could the virus pass from the bat to another intermediate animal, such as pangolin, by getting extra proteins along the way before finally passing to humans?
Scientists continue their investigation.
In China, just two days after the discovery of the first Covid-19 genetic chain, local authorities closed Professor Zhang's laboratory and revoked her research license.
According to the Chinese media, no official reason was given.
But it's already done.
"Without this first sequence, we would not have been able to start work," says Professor Andersen.
- All thanks to Chinese scientists who provided important information at incredible speed. "
Monitor and isolate
As Covid-19 spread, scientists' efforts shifted from studying the origin of the virus to controlling the outbreak.
Tracking of contacts
South Korea, with a population of 51 million, is one of the most successful countries in the world to contain the Covid-19 offensive.
Much of this success is due to the country's ability to mobilize an entire army of contact tracing agents - researchers trained to detect links between the Covid-19 patients and the people they have contacted since.
Then we have to decide who should be instructed about self-isolation or, in some cases, whether to quarantine the entire building or an entire organization - a hospital, a nursing home or an office.
New Covid-19 cases in South Korea
There were very few new cases in January and early February, and the South Koreans hoped that outbreaks had been avoided.
However, by the end of February, the situation had suddenly changed to the worst: one city became the epicentre of the epidemic, with the number of people affected in just a few days reaching several thousand.
The outbreak in Taegu has since been attributed to the movements of one man - the "super-delivery man," the infamous "patient 31."
Taegu accounts for more than 60 per cent of all cases in the country
Patient 31 tested positive for coronavirus on February 17.
Thanks to the work of the tracking agents, all the people she had recently contacted, who, to the surprise of investigators, were more than 1,000 in 10 days, were found and instructed in self-isolation, thus avoiding further spread of the virus.
As a deputy of the Daegu Epidemiological Group, Professor Kim Jong-young is in charge of contact tracing in the city, which is often done by former government officials and aspiring doctors.
He says that only if people do not want to abide by the rules of self-isolation (as patient 31) do they have to use more rigorous methods, such as studying transactions with their credit cards and their phone or GPS data.
Professor Kim Jong-young, Taegu City
Patient 31 didn't tell us at first that she belonged to the Church of Sinchhonji.
It was we who monitored the contacts who later discovered this, "says Professor Kim.
The religious sect of the Sinchhonji Church has about 300,000 members.
and claims that their founder, Lee Man-hee, embodies the second coming of Christ.
Many major Christian churches in South Korea consider the group a cult and have long criticized their aggressive policy of recruiting young people.
Church of Sinchhonji Gyeonggi.
Source: Sinchhonji
However, patient 31 was not known for hiding her affiliation with the Church of Sinchhonji.
Investigators found that, ten days before the test, despite the symptoms, she had traveled all over Taegu, making contact with more than 1,000 people.
On 6 February, she was in a car accident and the following day was taken to hospital, where she came into close contact with approximately 128 people.
She was then temporarily discharged to return home and pick up her personal belongings (two and a half hours round-trip) before returning to the hospital.
Later that week, she left the hospital several times, went to lunch once with a friend and twice to attend a two-hour church service attended by about a thousand people.
Professor Kim says that due to the closed nature of the Church of Sinchhonji, the most difficult part of the investigation was an attempt to determine who else was attending the services during that week.
We finally got a list of all 9,000 members of the church.
We started calling them and asking everyone if they had symptoms of the virus.
About 1,200 people answered yes, but some refused to undergo testing and went to quarantine. "
Hundreds of people were unwilling to reveal their identity to Sinchhonji, and the agents had no choice, Kim claims.
The question was how quickly we could separate church members from the rest of Taegu.
The government therefore ordered all members of the Church of Sinchhonji to go into isolation. "
Thousands of members of the Sinchhonji Church celebrate graduation.
Source: Sinchhonji
A thorough investigation of all new cases combined with comprehensive testing quickly halted the spread of the virus, and by early April Taegu had reported no new cases of Covid-19.
However, the virus continued to spread steadily in other parts of the world.
It became vital for the scientific community to track Covid-19 not only across countries, but across entire continents.
The solution to the problem lies in the genome, the key to the genetic code of the virus, which began to multiply and spread.
Following the discovery of the genome by Professor Yong-Zhen Zhang's team in January, scientists around the world continued to analyze tens of thousands of nasal smears, uploading their results to GISAID, one of the few open source databases.
By repeatedly sequencing (i.e. determining amino acid or nucleotide sequences of DNA and RNA) the genome as it spreads, scientists can track mutations in the genetic code - tiny errors, "typing" in the genetic "letters."
Studying these evidence left by the virus, comparing the sequence of mutations can show how the virus spreads across borders.
For example, if a sample taken from a patient in New York found three single mutations, and several samples from Wuhan had the same three "seals" in their genome, it was very likely that all of these cases were part of one transmission from one person to another.
Later, by reconstructing the timeline, experts can understand when and how the virus moved from Wuhan to New York.
Map: Nextstrain
Epidemiologist Dr. Emma Hodcroft works with Nextstrain, a group of scientists and programmers who extract key information from tens of thousands of sequences uploaded to GISAID.
It creates an open source map - a snapshot of the mutating genome as the virus spreads around the world.
Dr. Emma Hodcroft works from home.
By tracking the genome, we can look far beyond just talking to people.
They may not know when or where they became infected.
But the genome is much more reliable, "says Dr. Hodcroft.
This is particularly important in the case of countries for which reliable data are not available, such as Iran.
Secret communication
In late January, Dr. Hodcroft and the Nextstrain team noticed a number of samples with very similar genomes and often the same mutations, but from eight different countries, including Australia, New Zealand, Germany, the United Kingdom, the United States, China and the Netherlands.
At first, scientists were unable to determine exactly where this unusual group of samples came from.
"On the chart, they were very close to each other," says Hodcroft.
- It was unexpected because otherwise these people seemed to have nothing in common.
But then we found that some samples from Australia can be traced back to Iran. "
It was really important because at the time we had no samples from Iran.
But now we could say with great confidence that all these people were infected either in Iran itself, or by someone who was recently in Iran. "
Scheme of transfer of 18 genetically similar Covid-19 samples, all from Iran
Tracking the genome is a powerful tool because the virus mutates relatively rarely.
So scientists have enough samples to understand how the virus spreads across the region.
In studying these samples from Iran, the Nextstrain team concluded that not only did they all come from a single case of infection in Iran, but that the entire outbreak in the country probably also started from the same infected person.
Since then, scientists have been able to trace the outbreak in Iran to the holy city of Qom.
It is visited daily by thousands of tourists and pilgrims, and from there the virus spread throughout the country in less than two weeks.
During the Eid al-Fitr celebrations in Iran, the prayers observe the rules of social distance
Through contact tracing and genome research, scientists have discovered the true speed and opacity with which Covid-19 has spread around the world.
Yet, despite all the discoveries in the past six months, experts are one step behind - they cannot predict when and where the virus will appear next.
When it comes to controlling Covid-19, one major problem remains: the unique ability of the virus to move randomly across a population, sometimes causing fatal diseases, but more often with mild symptoms or no symptoms at all.
Studies of Covid-19 in asymptomatic people are very difficult.
However, in a small village in northern Italy, an important part of the puzzle was discovered.
The Invisible Threat
The first death of Covid-19 in Italy occurred not in one of its many noisy cities, but in the small isolated village of Vaud in the Veneto region.
About 3,000 people live here.
Wo (also known as Wo Euganeo) is located at the foot of the Euganean Hills, a national park less than an hour's drive from Venice.
As soon as the first death from the virus was announced in the country on 21 February, the local authorities decided to close the entire village and began regularly taking swabs from all residents, regardless of the symptoms.
From a scientific point of view, this created a unique situation in which several thousand people were subjected to repeated testing in isolation.
Italian soldiers patrol the perimeter of the town
The investigation was led by a local microbiologist, Associate Professor Enrico Lavezzo.
He explains that the most important conclusion of their study was what he calls the "silent spread" of the virus: an unexpected number of tests on Covid-19 gave a positive result, but the symptoms of those infected were weak or absent.
More than 40% of people who carried the virus did not even realize that it could infect others.
It is a huge problem in terms of controlling such a contagious disease, "says Professor Lavezzo.
Most people with symptoms will stay home, but most people without symptoms will behave normally.
They go out, they meet people, they come into close contact with others - not even knowing they can pass the virus on to others. "
Enrico Lavezzo videoconference from Padua, Italy
The Lavezzo Group was one of the first to identify the scale of the problem of asymptomatic cases.
Other studies have since yielded estimates of up to 70%.
Another surprising finding was that of the 3,000 inhabitants of the village, no child under the age of 10 had a positive result on Covid-19.
We do not claim that children cannot get infected.
This has been proven by other studies.
But the fact that at least a dozen of them lived with infected people but did not themselves become infected is unusual and requires further study, "Lavezzo says.
The main reason that Covid-19 has not been able to contain it is that compared to other coronaviruses, it is capable of reaching a large number of people who inadvertently assist in its spread.
But why is Covid-19 so unique in its ability to cause such a wide range of symptoms, from mild coughing to potentially fatal breathing difficulties?
And if it is based on Professor Lavezzo 's findings, why is it less common for children?
Death combination
Scientists have discovered that the virus can enter the human body only by attaching to specific ACE-2 receptors on the surface of human cells.
Coronavirus attached to human cells
Professor Michael Farzan's laboratory discovered the ACE-2 receptor during the SARS outbreak in 2003.
The problem, Farzan explains, is that ACE-2 receptors are located throughout the body, inside the nose, lungs, intestines, even the heart, kidneys and brain.
Michael Farzan Professor of Immunology and Microbiology
This wide distribution of ACE-2 explains why Covid-19 causes such a diverse range of symptoms, from nose infection leading to loss of smell to inflammation of the lungs leading to severe cough............
In general, most viruses are either well spread or can cause serious diseases.
Covid-19 is more dangerous because it does both well.
As it enters the upper respiratory tract, nose and lungs, inflammation causes coughing and sneezing, which rapidly spread the disease.
And infection of the lower respiratory tract can cause serious, potentially fatal respiratory problems.
X-ray of a 68-year-old man with severe symptoms.
The white areas on the sides of the lungs are inflammation of the air sacs, making it difficult for patients to breathe.
Source: Royal College of Radiologists, United Kingdom
It is not yet clear how children differ from adults in their ability to spread the virus.
The British government's Scientific Advisory Panel on Emergencies states that evidence suggests that children are less likely to be infected with Covid-19 and less likely to be infected with others.
However, scholars have stressed that the evidence itself is not yet sufficient.
According to Professor Farzan, there is evidence that children, who account for less than 2% of cases, have lower ACE-2 light receptors than adults.
"This means that children are less susceptible to this disease, at least to the severe pneumonia that is common in adults," says Professor Farzan.
However, at the top of the child 's lung receptors is sufficient.
"Children are still able to spread the virus because the upper respiratory tract is very important for this," he explains.
Despite six months of research and scientific discovery, scientists believe that the only way to truly end the pandemic - and avoid future waves of the virus - is through preventive vaccination.
The Vaccine Hunt
Currently, 124 different groups of researchers claim to be the first to develop the vaccine against Covid-19.
Professor Jorge Calil at the University of S達o Paulo leads one of the few potential vaccine trials in Brazil.
The country is paralyzed by coronavirus, but President Jair Bolsonaru continues to participate in anti-quarantine rallies, despite the fact that regional authorities have imposed quarantine in most major cities across the country.
Professor Jorge Calil at his home in S達o Paulo
According to some developers, the vaccine could be ready by September, and production and distribution would take 12 to 18 months.
He says that the main thing is diligence, not haste.
We must move as quickly as possible.
But I don 't think the first person to finish is the winner.
It's not a car race.
The winner will be the vaccine that suits most people - ideally at least 90% - and will stop both the symptoms and the spread of the virus, "he says.
Calil believes that in order to truly end the pandemic, the world needs a vaccine for the elderly and people with chronic cardiovascular diseases.
It is these people who will find it difficult to develop antibodies, the natural protective mechanism of our body in response to a vaccine or infection.
Therefore, if the vaccine does not work for most people, including the most vulnerable, Covid-19 will continue to spread.
Mass funeral of victims of Covid-19 in Manaus, Brazil
Kalil also believes that access to the vaccine is essential for all countries, otherwise outbreaks will not be prevented.
The problem is money and politics.
Here in S達o Paulo, rich people isolate themselves in their beautiful homes, but how can they be a modest family of eight, nine or ten people in one room? "
- he says.
To truly end the virus for all, a very good vaccine is needed.
There is no other way. "
Fresh graves at the cemetery for the dead for causes suspected or precisely related to Covid-19, Manaus, Brazil
The project involved:
Reporter: Claire Press
Additional data: Bugyon Yoon
Illustrations: Charlie Newland
Graphics: Zoe Bartholomew, Daniel Danford, Prina Shah, Dominic Bailey, Alison Trowsdale
Photo: Getty, BBC
Editors: Ben Allen and Jackie Martens
Editors of the Russian version: Ksenia Gogitidze, Marina Romadova
The editorial thanks Victoria Lindre, Courtney Timz, Angelo Attanasio, Julian Graghani and Wungby Lee.