How many antibodies do you need to protect against COVID-19?
As Vladislav Zhemchug, an immunologist, believes, the level of protection of the body against infection is determined not only by antibodies.
The immune system is made up of thousands of components, the ratio of which to each individual.
In his view, the amount of antibodies to SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus that have been generated in the body after vaccination or disease transmission is not actually relevant to the assessment of human protection.
Therefore, it makes no sense to measure it after vaccination.
This is the opinion of one of Kazakhstan's specialists, the candidate of biological sciences Ilyas Esmagambetov: "After vaccination, measuring titre of antibodies makes no sense at all, yet it will have no effect, immune response is there, protection is still there, and it will not strengthen it in any way.
Even if antibody production decreases over time, this does not mean that the organism becomes defenceless. "
He said that if there is no contact with the virus, there is no virus in the body, the production of antibodies decreases.
An organism.
It 's also impossible to imagine that all the antibodies to all the microbes that we' re in contact with would be consistently high.
However, memory cells remain, which are rapidly activated upon re-exposure to the virus, for two days instead of three weeks as during the first exposure.
And the immune system is already activated, and it kills the viruses in a second contact in two to three days at most, "he explained.
In turn, the Russian immunologist Zhemchug explained that the amount of antibodies makes sense only before vaccination: "If there are antibodies, that is, the person has an illness, it is advisable to vaccinate once - if the person believes that the antibodies are few and is concerned about it.
A single vaccination of either vaccine will be enough to boost cell memory.
This is if the person was sick about a year ago.
And if there are antibodies, and a person knows that he or she has been infected within six months, then vaccination is not mandatory. "
No coronavirus antibodies?
There is another view among scientists: antibodies are not needed to defeat the disease at all..........
This is the view of Dmitri  Poteryev, Deputy Director General for Science "MBC Generium," Russia.
- The protective response of the body against any infection, including COVID-19, is not limited to antibodies.
There is also a T-cell response.
It is not associated with antibodies, but with powerful killing cells, or T-lymphocytes, which are activated when the virus enters the body.
Some of these "kill  c" remain in the form of memory cells.
They are in the long term and will "recognize" the transmitted virus.
Thus, according to him, if the recovered antibody level is low, he could overcome the disease either by innate immunity or by T-cell response.
The absence of the latter is much less common than the absence of antibodies.
The validity of this theory has been proven by a study conducted last June among nearly 3,000 British doctors, police officers and firefighters.
It showed that in the absence of antibodies, a certain level of coronavirus-specific T cells can protect against infection.
Test subjects were tested for T-cell immunity and antibodies were determined.
The participants were then monitored for four months.
None of those who had antibodies to coronavirus were infected.
But more interestingly, about 300 people without antibodies had high levels of T-cell response.
No one was sick in this group either.
The researchers also noted the importance of the fact that no person with high levels of T cells could be infected with COVID-19 for the next four months.
If antibodies can disappear within a couple of months, how long does the T cell response last?
- With regard to the current coronavirus, we know that at least six months..................
For its closest relatives, such as SARS and MERS coronaviruses, the required T cell level has been maintained for more than 10 years.
This has been shown by the surveillance of patients who have recovered.
How much T-cell immunity can actually protect a person from COVID-19 is difficult to say.
Based on the available information, it can be concluded that the protective function is probably preserved for years, according to Dmytria  Poteryaev.
100% protection not yet available
Today, many who have been infected by the virus are asked: Do they have natural protection from infection, and can they be vaccinated against coronavirus?
After all, logically, if a person has a disease, then the antibodies against it must be "on the level," so the vaccine is not necessary.
Opinions on this issue are mixed, so we will consider the most relevant and scientifically proven information.
First of all, according to scientists, transmissible coronavirus does not save people who walk without masks from infection.
They spread coronavirus freely and without any hindrance.
MSU professor of biological sciences Alexei Agranovsky confirmed that the infected person still emits virus particles, albeit in a smaller amount.
The virus is kept in the upper respiratory tract and can be transmitted by air-droplet, even if the person does not sneeze or cough, but simply talks.
This may be enough to spread the infection, all depends on human immunity.
And only a mask can be a barrier to the spread of infection.
There are other types.
According to experts, antibodies are also different - their presence in the body does not yet mean that immunity has developed.
As mentioned above, if there are too few, the risk of catching the virus again is very high.
It is important to realize that not all have adequate immune protection after infection.
There are many reasons for the absence or ineffectiveness of anticonvulsant immunity: disease in the lung without strong immune response, overall reduction of body reactivity, presence of associated pathologies, constant intake of immunosuppressive drugs in autoimmune diseases.
This is why experts say that those who are sick can be vaccinated against coronavirus.
If a person does not have antibodies and protective cells, he or she is at risk despite being exposed to COVID-19, and may become ill again shortly after re-exposure.
Doctors also admit that it is possible not to vaccinate against coronavirus if there are sufficient antibodies, because the vaccine will not be useful.
Such a person already has strong immune defenses and is protected from re-infection in the coming months.
Another point is that not all citizens know how high their antibodies are.
At the same time, Alexander Chepurnov, Scientific Officer of the Center for Fundamental Translational Medicine, advises on pre-immunization if the number of antibodies is small and approaches the "serum zone."
The term is used to refer to the doubtful result of a test, which is neither positive nor negative.
In the opinion of the experts, the vaccine taken during this period will be as effective as possible.
However, the presence of antibodies is not the only argument for a 6-month delay.
As the experts explain: "This tactic will promote the use of vaccines for other people who have not been exposed to the virus and thus protect a much larger part of the population."
But it also provides temporary protection.
It has to be understood that a lifetime vaccine against coronavirus, like any other disease, doesn 't work because its genetic code can change.
A new vaccine is therefore needed every season.
There is no answer yet on how to make your immunity immune to COVID-19.
Only a truly large-scale study can shed light on this situation...
MK Reference:
T-killers are white blood cells that specialize in killing viruses and tumor cells.
There are about five million in one and a half packs.
T-Killers move around the body and destroy cells infected with viruses or bacteria.