How does the bat organism grow viruses that kill us?
The bat organism is an ideal incubator for the production of deadly viruses.
Its immunity protects the night-time predator itself from infection, while making harmful microorganisms stronger.
According to some reports, the bat's body can even control how dangerous the virus will be!
We hope that you should have known about vampires and their relatives before you had them.
How's the transmission?
Communicators who studied the transmission of viruses from animals to humans knew in advance that a third epidemic of dangerous coronavirus was likely.
The "demonstration trials" were SARS SARS in 2002-2003 in China and MERS Middle East respiratory syndrome in 2012-2013, covering 23 countries.
The natural reservoir of all these viruses, including the newest ones, are bats.
Scientists estimate that these animals can carry 50 to 200 types of infections.
Their immune system is doing very well with viruses: winged mammals themselves are barely sick, but they are successfully spreading diseases - not only coronavirus, but also rabies, Marburg and Ebola hemorrhagic fever, and other dangerous epidemics.
The transmission of coronavirus from mice to humans often occurs not directly, but through an "intermediary."
For example, SARS coronavirus in 2002 is believed to have been transmitted to humans through Himalayan cysts (cat-like mammals) that are consumed in parts of the PRC.
"Patient Zero" Juan Sinchú, who started the epidemic, was a cook.
He made exotic dishes from wild animals in the restaurant and is believed to have contracted the disease while cutting raw meat.
In 2015, people in the Middle East were infected with the respiratory disease MERS from camels.
But when experts begin to compare the genome of a new coronavirus that is striking humanity and look for a similar one in nature, it always turns out that the vectors are actually bats.
For example, Greek scientists recently found that the SARS-CoV2 genome, which caused today's COVID-19 pandemic, is 96.3% similar to the RaTG13 bat virus.
The search for a "mediator" has not yet been completed.
According to Chinese experts, the winter outburst in Uhani could not have happened directly from bats.
Although, to be honest, some Chinese eat these mammals, and there are restaurants that have served this exotic dish almost unprocessed.
But it 's more likely that there was an intermediate animal that transmitted SARS-CoV2 coronavirus from winged little creatures to humans.
It was named after the snakes and lizards of Pangolina.
Superimmunity
The immunity of the bat is stronger than that of the human.
Recently, scientists at the University of California, Berkeley have investigated how these animals respond to viruses and have concluded:
The immune system of bats can control virulence, that is, regulate the pathogenicity of a particular strain of an infectious agent.
It depends on how contagious the virus is.
In the course of the study, scientists found that viral infection triggers a rapid and powerful immune response in bats, which in turn protects animals from disease and induces an aggressive immune response, forcing viruses to actively reproduce and adapt.
Through such a natural filter, viruses gain unprecedented power and become dangerous to creatures with weaker immunity, including us humans.
The principle of bat immunity has not yet been sufficiently studied, but some mechanisms are known.
For example, California scientists have discovered in bat cells special molecular systems responsible for the synthesis of interferon, a special protein that secretes cells in the event of a virus invasion.
In these areas, a rapid interferon response occurred.
For comparison, the reaction of African green monkey cells was studied.
Scientists have found that she has no interferon at all.
As a result of the virus infecting the cell culture, monkey cells died, and bat cells were successfully protected from infection by interferon.
Because of this mechanism, bats have such unusual and strong immunity compared to other mammals.
Why are mice becoming more dangerous now?
The growing population of South-East Asians is crowding out bats, depriving them of their usual habitat.
This causes stress in animals and increases the release of saliva, urine and other physiological products containing viruses.
That is, bats become even more contagious and infection of animal "mediators" is easier.
It is not surprising, therefore, that the distribution zone has become the market in Ouhani, where raw meat and live animals are traded for gastronomic purposes.
For infectious scientists, the new wave of bat epidemics is no surprise.
Not only were they aware of this possibility, they were even conducting experiments to create a human form of coronavirus in the laboratory.
A "chimeric" virus based on the surface protein SHC014 and the SARS virus was manufactured as early as 2013 by Chinese scientists from the Ochany Institute of Virology.
Now this story has come up, and the legitimate question has arisen: Did not the laboratory virus cause the pandemic?
But the conspiracy theory quickly fell apart, as scientific evidence was provided that it was a completely different species of coronavirus.
So the wine fell back on the little bats.
It may have been necessary to stop eating them as early as 2002, like other known coronavirus vectors from the animal world.
And scientists probably needed to speak much louder about the impending apocalypse.
But history, alas, has no circumstantial bias, and we 're seeing an unprecedented pandemic in real time.
About 400,000 people worldwide have been infected, and about 500 cases have been confirmed in Russia.
Text: Evgeny Shmeleva
Read about how the COVID-19 vaccine is being made and whether it will be ready soon.