What is known about the British COVID-19 strain
Photo by Peter Summers / Getty Images
A new strain of coronavirus was first identified in the United Kingdom in December 2020 and is now known in 25 European countries.
What is known about the British strain and what is it dangerous?
What kind of strain??
On the evening of Saturday, 19 December, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson announced the new COVID-19 strain.
All information about it is preliminary.
It was first discovered in September.
In November, 25% of new infections in London identified a new strain of coronavirus, and by mid-December, almost 70%.
This includes data from patients' analyses of COVID-19, which is provided by the British Milton Keynes Lighthouse Laboratory.
A new strain is more contagious and more deadly?
The British strain of coronavirus is spreading faster than the usual variant, said World Health Organization (WHO) expert Maria van Kerkhow in a briefing on 8 January.
According to her, specialists rely on the indicator of reproductive number - the number of people that a patient can infect.
Recent data suggest that the conventional variant is not spreading as quickly as the strain found in the UK.
And here we rely on the reproductive number, which has increased from 1.1 to 1.5-1.7, "Van Kerkhove said.
According to the WHO Weekly Epidemiological Information Bulletin, the British strain has already spread to 50 countries and regions.
This was reported by TASS with reference to the 13 January document.
"Since its first detection on 14 December, VOC-202012 / 01 has been detected in 50 states / territories / districts in five of the six WHO regions," the organization wrote.
On 14 January, the Director of the WHO Regional Office for Europe, Hans Kluge, reported that the British strain had been detected in 25 European countries, including Russia.
On 10 January, Anna Popova, head of the Russian Consumer Agency, reported that a new strain of COVID-19 had been discovered in a Russian who had arrived from the United Kingdom.
According to Popova, this case was discovered at the end of 2020 and is now healthy and not contagious.
According to the virologist, MSU professor, Dr. Alexey Agranovsky, the main danger of the new strain of coronavirus found in the United Kingdom is its rate of spread.
The disease is not more severe, there is no evidence that it is more dangerous.
Its danger is in the speed of proliferation, "he said RBC.
What else is different from the previous one?
The British strain COVID-19, unlike the original form of the virus, often occurs in children with a number of distinctive symptoms.
This has been stated by health experts, Express reports.
According to the publication, the most common children with the disease are tired, many become confined, and the number of hysterics and crying increases.
Another characteristic symptom of the British strain was headache, which was reported by 53 per cent of infected children.
The United States Centers for Disease Control also officially lists headaches as a symptom of coronavirus in children.
Other symptoms included abdominal and throat pain.
Nearly half of the children affected by the new strain of coronavirus had a fever of up to 37 degrees, and more than a third had lost their appetite.
Where did he come from?
According to preliminary data, the new strain either originated in the patient in the UK or was imported from another country where coronavirus mutations are not monitored.
Scientists argue that the strain may have originated in a patient with a weakened immune system that could not defeat the virus.
In this way, his body became a kind of favorable medium for the mutation of the coronavirus.
Does the vaccine work on the strain?
No exact data are available.
According to Johnson, as yet, there is no indication that the new strain is resistant to vaccines.
All the vaccines now in use are configuring the immune system to attack the various components of the virus, which means that even though some of the spikes have mutated, the vaccines will still be effective.
Kirill Dmitriev, the head of the RSFSR, announced on Monday, 21 December that the Russian Sputnik V vaccine is effective against new mutations of the coronavirus.
COVID-19 mutates for the first time?
No, I'm not.
The first coronavirus found in Wuhan is different from that found worldwide.
The pandemic was caused by a mutated strain of D614G, which originated in Europe in February.
The A222V strain has also been found in Spain.
"The COVID-19 virus is prone to mutations, but not like the flu virus," said Forbes Vitaly Zverev, scientific director of the Research Institute for Vaccines and Serum.
The sword.
- This virus mutates much more slowly, and as far as the British version is concerned, remember, we were just talking about Spanish. "
There are always new strains with mutation, but this has not led us to anything serious yet.
"It's too early to be scared," says Dmitry Lioznov.
The older the virus, the more lethal it is.
The virus may weaken over time and become more pathogenic, but so far nothing has happened to say that the virus is not changing well - there is no such data. "
Telecommunications companies also increased revenues during the pandemic.
In the spring, traffic and load on the network significantly increased, noted in an interview with RBK President "Rostelekoma" Mikhail Oseevsky, while the decrease in traffic from offices was offset by increased household traffic, the number of requests for high-speed home Internet connection increased by 22%.
The epidemic, he said, dramatically expanded the use of technologies for remote work and learning, cloud solutions for remote interaction, Internet commerce, digital video services.
The telecommunications sector is resilient not only in the face of a pandemic, but in principle in any crisis, as these services have become an integral part of human consumption, says Fitch analyst Vyacheslav Bunkov.
In Russia, they are also among the cheapest in the world, so there is no need to give them up even in times of crisis, he adds.
With the closure of the company, he said, revenues from roaming were lost, but this was offset by increased domestic consumption.
Sergey Bobylev / TASS 1 of 13
NGO "Himautomatika" (part of Roshimprotection Corporation, part of Rosteh): revenue 76.7 million roubles, + 18 044%
The coronavirus pandemic this spring provoked an aziotic demand for antiseptics: for example, in mid-April, the deputy head of the Ministry of Industry Mikhail Ivanov on the TV channel "Russia 24" announced an increase in the production of skin antiseptics six times compared to the beginning of March, and the number of their producers from 10 to more than 60 (quote from "RIA Novosti").
In order to be able to use the technology of the manufacture of disinfectants, the Ministry of Defense has, among other things, applied "Uralhim."
At least one of the enterprises that took up this production only in the spring was able to increase the revenue by thousands of times.
The scientific and production association "Himautomatika," which in 1974-1986 was headed by the future mayor of Moscow Yuri Luzhkov and 63.8% of the registered capital of which "Rosteh" now controls, became the absolute leader in the increase of revenues among all companies reporting for the six-month period: in the first six-month period of 2019, as in the previous year, his earnings amounted to only several hundred thousand rubles.
A record minimum of 10 years of revenue was provided to the enterprise by the sale of disinfectants against the backdrop of import disruptions, the representative of "Rosteha" reported.
Chemical Automation releases medical equipment, in particular collects STEL plants for the production of disinfectants, and in the spring, against the backdrop of the epidemic, NGOs decided to diversify production and within three days set up the industrial production of their own disinfectant "Neutral Anolite ANK."
According to the representative of the state corporation, this allowed "Himautomatika" to meet the increased needs of both Moscow and the regions of Russia.
In addition, the company supplied personal protective equipment.
The prices of the products remained below market prices, passed on through the press service by the director-general of the NGO "Himautomatika" Maxim Pudov.
Vitaly Nevar / TASS 1 of 13
Research Institute "Soliton" (Ufa, Bashkortostan): revenue 361.6 million rubles, + 247%
Ryazan radio plant: revenue 2.24 billion roubles, + 94%
JSC "Lenpoligrafmash" (St. Petersburg): proceeds 200.8 million rubles, + 55%
In the first half of 2020, a number of companies producing communications equipment commissioned by the Ministry of Defence increased their revenues significantly.
The growth of state procurement is not observed: the increase in their revenues may be due to a change in its structure, according to Vladimir Salnikov, Deputy Director of the Center for Macroeconomic Analysis and Short-term Forecasts.
Before the record, for at least a decade, the Ufim research institute "Soliton" increased its half-yearly revenue, from which Rosteh emerged at the end of last year (controlling 18.5%; now control of the research institute is concentrated in the hands of the major Bashkir entrepreneur Damir Muginov).
This research institute is included in the list of strategic enterprises of Russia and produces equipment for networks and communication systems, mainly for the needs of the Ministry of Defense, the communications departments of the strategic missile forces, the Navy and the Russian Air Force.
In the last 10 years the state defense order provided between 94% and 98% of the company's work, according to its annual report, in 2018 this line provided Soliton 95% of all revenues.
In the quarterly report, the NII points to the risk of its financial dependence on the serial supply of equipment for the defense agency.
Little is known about the current activities of the NII - for example, it is currently working on the R & D cycle for the development of mobile information transfer hardware and software.
At the Soliton Research Institute, Forbes refused to contact a representative of the company.
After two years of declining revenues, Ryazan Radio Factory, specializing in the production of special-purpose radios for the army, almost doubled it in the first half of the year (56.89% of the company's statutory capital is controlled by the concern "Sozvezdie," which belongs to "Rosteh").
Last year, more than 90% of the plant's revenues, according to annual reports, provided a state defense order.
Among the major customers, apart from Sozavedia itself, according to SPARC data on contracts concluded, military units and Rosguarda.
More than half - to the maximum since 2010 - has increased the half-yearly revenue of the Piter JSC "Lenpoligrafmash," one of the key areas of activity of which is the production of high-tech equipment for the Ministry of Defense, including modern communication equipment, printing and information storage equipment capable of working, for example, in the conditions of the Far North.
The company itself indicates that it produces, among other things, 5G-generation special communications products.
The annual report of Lenpoligrafmasha states that the organizations and enterprises of the VPK are the main consumer of its products and that it depends heavily on the amount of the state defense order.
JSC "Horizont" (Rostov-on-Don): revenue 193 million roubles, + 145%
Amur Shipyard (Komsomolsk-na-Amur, Khabarovsk Krai): revenue 6.9 billion roubles, + 38%
Vympel shipbuilding plant (Rybinsk, Yaroslavl Oblast): revenue 3.9 billion roubles, + 18%
Among the enterprises whose revenues increased markedly in annual terms in the first half of the year, there is a large presence of shipbuilding and ship repair plants and related enterprises.
For example, the revenue of the Amur Shipyard, one of the largest in Russia, has accelerated.
According to its quarterly report, the company is currently building two Corvettes of Project 20380 for the Ministry of Defence and two freight and passenger car and rail ferries.
The shipbuilding plant "Vympel" managed by the concern "Kalashnikov" has increased the revenue, as a large number of products were scheduled to be delivered during this period, the pandemic did not affect its work, the representative of the concern said.
Rostov-on-Don JSC "Horizont," which supplies to the Russian market ship navigation radar stations, earned 2.5 times more than a year earlier.
In recent years, shipbuilding enterprises have been actively financed under the State defence order, as the Russian military fleet is being retrofitted with modern vessels, notes Portnews editor Vitaly Chernov.
Civil vessel production is also growing, he said, thanks to the Government 's decision taken several years to subsidize interest rates on loan leasing payments for shipowners who have ordered the construction of vessels at Russian shipyards.
Several dozen vessels have already been built using this measure, says Chernov.
In addition, the State supports the industry through the so-called ship recycling grant: when old ships are recycled, it provides subsidies for the construction of new ones.
The Russian Navy, both civilian and military, is very much obsolete, the need for its renewal has become acute enough, so the interests of shipowners and the State, which is important to develop industry, coincide here, Chernov summarizes.
PAO "Highest" (Bodaibo, Irkutsk Oblast): revenue (according to IFRS) 16.4 billion roubles, + 92%
PAO "Pollus": revenue (according to IFRS) 142.2 billion roubles, + 33%
"Polymetal": revenue (according to IFRS) 78.7 billion roubles, + 28%
Russia's gold producers have benefited not from the pandemic itself, but from the crisis it triggered: investors' demand for gold-backed assets is growing during periods of instability.
For example, the representative of Polymetall said that the increase in the company 's revenue was mainly due to the increase in gold and silver prices, which in turn were caused by general macroeconomic and geopolitical uncertainties.
In addition, the impact of the weakening of the ruble against the dollar was affected when assessing the change in dollar earnings in ruble terms.
For "Polyus," the period of high prices coincided with the beginning of the active phase of the investment cycle, the representative of the company noted: the gold miner is implementing one of the largest projects in the industry, Dry Log in Irkutsk Oblast, and is also working on a large-scale expansion of existing enterprises in Krasnoyarsk Krai.
The coronavirus pandemic has triggered a global crisis, and consequently an increase in the cost of gold as a protective asset for investors, so even in the absence of an increase in gold production, gold mining companies could benefit from an increase in prices and exchange rates, according to Fitch Ratings analyst Dmitry Kazakov: when the price of precious metal increases from $1200 to $1800 per ounce, their dollar earnings automatically increase by 50% and the ruble by 60-80%.
In the first half of the year, gold rose by 16%, with inflows to its stock exchange funds (ETF) reaching a record 734 tons, according to a report by the World Gold Council.
At the same time, the crisis reduced investment in gold bullion and coins, reduced demand for jewelry, and reduced demand for gold in the industrial sector.
The increase in gold prices could even compensate for several weeks of production delays if they were needed in the event of a deterioration of the situation with coronavirus at the factory, according to Kazakhs.
Because of the pandemic, there have indeed been mine failures this summer.
For example, Polimetall temporarily suspended mining at the Olcha deposit in Magadan province in August, finding coronavirus in about a third of the 164 people working there, but the simple result would not affect the results, as the mine was ahead of schedule, as reported in IFRS.
Also in the summer, problems were reported with gold mining and contamination of Wahtoviks in the key for PAO "Highest" Bodaibin district of Irkutsk Oblast.
Uralmashzavod (Yekaterinburg, Sverdlovsk Oblast): revenue 5.6 billion rubles, + 82%
"Power machines" (St. Petersburg): proceeds of 21.9 billion rubles, + 34%
"Tiazhmash" (Syzran, Samara region): revenue 7.4 billion rubles, + 29%
Industrial equipment manufacturers continued to increase their earnings.
Uralmash (the main shareholder - Gazprombank), which produces equipment for the mining, metallurgy and some other industries, has almost doubled its revenues, the earnings of the "Power machines" focused on the production of equipment for thermal, nuclear, hydraulic and gas turbine power plants have increased by one third, as well as another supplier of the mining and energy sector - JSC "Tizhmash."
The production of "Uralmasha" is growing for the fifth year in a row, this is a consequence of the increase in sales volume, the first deputy general director of Uralmasha plant Alexey Kozhemyako reported.
It follows from his words that the enterprise has in the short term improved the quality of machines as well as introduced new types of machines into the market, and government support - interest rate subsidy, discounts for buyers of Russian machines has also been affected.
The coronavirus pandemic did not affect the production: the production period of the machine is from six months to one year, so contracts for the products shipped in the first half of 2020 were concluded as early as 2018-2019, Kozhemyako noted.
"Power machines" continue to work on orders in the scheduled mode, the representative of the enterprise said, their production complexes - the plant "Elektrosila" and the Leningrad Metal Plant - did not stop work and the production volumes did not decrease.
However, the company was faced with delays in the delivery of materials and components and the shipment of manufactured equipment due to quarantine restrictions from the contracting parties, he added.
Tver pharmaceutical factory: revenue 102.9 million roubles, + 45%
Drug manufacturers are among those whose products were in demand in the spring.
However, only one production was reported in six months.
In particular, the Tver pharmaceutical factory produces detergents, liquid extracts, syrups and oils.
According to the results of the first half of the year the consumption of medicines increased by 13.8% and the market volume reached 858 billion roubles, notes the director of the strategic research division of DSM Group Yulia Nechayeva.
Market growth, she said, has accelerated compared to the first half of 2019, when drug consumption increased by 8.5%.
This is related to the surge in demand for drugs in March, when the consumer was buying drugs for fear of rising prices and the lack of needed drugs in pharmacies.
But since April, the market growth rate has fallen to 2%, so the market growth in 2020 is not significant, Nechayev adds.
She also noted that the pandemic had made adjustments in consumer demand and that companies were growing more and more with their portfolios of drugs related to the treatment of anticoagulant and antiviral diseases, which could also be used in the treatment of coronavirus.
Tkac factory "Uzor" (c. Vyritsa Gatchin, Leningrad Oblast) 101.3 million roubles + 39%
In the first half of the year, the textile factory "Uzor" received the maximum revenue in a decade.
The company produces mainly tapestries, technical and home textiles, and is included in the list of system-making industries of folk arts.
The president of the factory Ivan Kozlov did not comment on the increase in the revenue of "Uzora," but in April the factory stated that it had mastered the production of fabrics for special clothes and multiple protective masks.
"Uzor" is not the only textile enterprise that rebuilt its technologies and mastered the production of fabrics for protective clothing of medical workers during this period, observes the Vice-President of the Russian Union of Textile and Light Industry Entrepreneurs Nadezhda Samoilenko.
Also included were Tchaikovsky's Textiles, Baltex, Adventum Technologies, she listed.
Often the companies cooperated, for example Tchaikovsky textiles produced fabrics, and costumes for health workers were worn by Bosco di Ciliegi.
According to Samoylenko, textile enterprises have also established the production of medical and protective masks: for example, the company "Shuyuki Sittsi," which traditionally produces cotton fabrics and bed linen, has increased the production of both mask fabrics and repeat masks themselves.
The employer was the State as well as the hospitals themselves, Samoilenko adds.
Arkhangelsk Maritime Commercial Port: revenues 681 million rubles, + 34%
Lensk Joint River Shipping Company (Yakutsk, Republic of Sakha): revenue 1.1 billion rubles, + 22%
Kolyma Shipping Company.
Zyryanka Verkhnekolymsky Ulusa, Republic of Sakha): revenue 243 million rubles, + 19%
A number of ports and shipping companies also reported a marked increase in revenues in the first half of the year.
In the last 20 years stevedoring activity has been one of the most stable segments of the economy, even in the most severe crises, port traffic has steadily increased, notes Chernov.
Russian exports have been growing steadily, the port infrastructure has been actively developing, and a lot of private and public funds have been invested in this, it continues.
Moreover, as Russian exporters benefit from the devaluation of the ruble, the ports they use eventually also benefit from it, says Chernov.
The shipping industry as a whole, he said, suffered less from the coronavirus pandemic and quarantine restrictions than others: international trade continues to function, borders are closed to people but not to goods.
Saran canning plant: revenue 647 million roubles, + 27%
Tula pasta factory: 615.5 million roubles, + 23%
Dobrinsky Sugar Plant (Plavica, Dobrinsky District, Lipetsk Region): revenue 3.8 billion rubles, + 10%
In the lead-up to the introduction of quarantine restrictions in Russia, retailers recorded a steady demand for some foods, such as pasta, canned foods, and sugar, RBC wrote with reference to Nielsen's research.
After six months, some producers of these products recorded an increase in revenues.
Among them is one of the major Russian producers of pasta, Tula pasta factory belonging to the group of companies "InfoLink."
At the same time, Dmitry Gurov, the director of logistics and procurement of InfoLink, gave a mixed assessment of the impact of the coronavirus pandemic on the company's activities: on the one hand, until May, the demand for food had a positive impact on the revenue dynamics, on the other hand, the pandemic led to a general deterioration of the economic situation, a decrease in disposable income of the population and activity in general.
"The negative effect is likely to be prolonged and is highly likely to double the positive outcome of the year," he says.
The high-readiness regime introduced in March has in fact proved to be a test for many food industries: the previous day, the ruble rate fell and the cost of production increased, says Dmitry Vostrikov, Executive Director of the Rusprodunion Association.
Demand quickly depleted stocks of raw materials and packaging, and new shipments had to be purchased at new prices.
Many food companies started working around the clock during this period and increased food production dozens of times, says Vostrikov.
At the same time, it was difficult for them to achieve minimum profitability in the face of falling real incomes, price controls and margins on the part of retail sellers, he claims.
So far, due to the fall of the ruble and the stagnation of demand, many of the food industries, he said, are on the verge of profitability.
Beluga Group: revenue (according to IFRS, less excise) 26.3 billion roubles, + 23%
Abrau-Durso: revenue (according to IFRS, less excise) 2.5 billion roubles, + 11%
The announcement of non-working days and the closure of cafes and restaurants this spring led to a surge in demand for alcohol.
So powerful was the concern of representatives of the Public Chamber, who recommended that the government abandon support for the alcohol industry and close down the liquor stores.
The consumption of alcohol-based products in the first half of the year increased by 2-3% compared to the same period last year, notes Yulia Katasonova, the junior director for corporate ratings "Expert RA."
According to her, this is further confirmation that the alcohol industry was among those protected during the spread of coronavirus infection.
Two of the largest enterprises in the sector - "Beluga Group" and "Abrau-Durso" (belonging to the family of business ombudsman Boris Titov) announced the increase in revenues for six months.
The Beluga Group, in particular, reported that the pandemic had forced her to adjust sales tactics and focus on off-trade (i.e., just sales, without tasting and consumption, as in restaurants) and digital channels.
This allowed it to increase sales in Germany, Poland and the United States by 91%, 82% and 21% respectively.
Sales of the group in Russia increased by 15% during the same period.
Tulamashzavod: revenue 6 billion rubles, + 20%
Machine Building Company.
I. Kalinina (Yekaterinburg, Sverdlovsk Oblast): revenue 12.3 billion rubles, + 13%
Kirov plant "Mayak": 695 million rubles, + 8%
Russian arms manufacturers also continued to earn money.
In particular, the revenue of the Tulamashfabrik has accelerated, whose main activity according to its annual accounts is the production of artillery weapons for aviation and the navy, and the main consumers are the Ministry of Defense and "Rosoboronexport."
It also appears from the report that the enterprise has a monopoly on the production of certain special-purpose products of the military-industrial complex.
The company produces diesel engines.
It is also home to the Yekaterinburg Machine Building Plant.
I. Kalinin, who traces his history from the St. Petersburg gun workshops, founded as early as 1866.
Currently the main activity of the enterprise is related to the production, repair, maintenance and recycling of special-purpose machinery for the needs of the Ministry of Defense, according to its annual report: in 2019 the production of such products for domestic Russian needs provided it with 85.6% of all income, more than 13% - exports, less percent were civilian products (electric loaders, electric carts, vacuum cleaners).
He increased the revenue after a significant fall a year earlier Kirov factory "Mayak," which specializes in the development and serial manufacture of modern weapons and military equipment.
It also produces civilian weapons (gas and aerosol pistols) and milking equipment for agriculture.
X5 Retail Group: proceeds (according to IFRS) 962.6 billion roubles, + 14%
"Lenta": proceeds (according to IFRS) 217 billion roubles, + 9%
"O'Kay": revenue (according to IFRS) 84.5 billion roubles, + 7%
Trade and retail networks have managed to turn themselves in favour of the coronavirus pandemic and quarantine restrictions.
For example, the X5 Retail Group, which runs the chains of the shops "Petterochka" and "Perekrosok" and the hypermarkets "Karusel," in its semi-annual report acknowledges that the Covid-19 pandemic has increased the demand for food for domestic consumption in the absence of functioning restaurants and cafes.
In addition, during the restrictions, the group improved the lease conditions for its hypermarkets.
In the first half of the year, the Lenta network recorded an increase in the average check in its hypermarkets and supermarkets.
For all major retailers, 2020 will be a good year in terms of sales and profits, even though their growth rate will decline in the second half of the year, according to Fitch Tatyana Bobrovskaya, Director of Consumer Ratings of EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa).
X5 Retail Group has even made a breakthrough in terms of growth in online sales through Cross Online, she says, and those networks that failed to establish their own online sales in the spring have been helped to earn services such as Sbermarket.
Since buyers will behave cautiously and respect the social distancing regime for some time, retailers who have managed to organize online business will be able to increase the number of loyal customers, Bobrovskaya argues.
She believes that some consumers who had never ordered products online before and preferred to go shopping will now use this channel.
Rostelevik: 155 billion roubles, + 5%
MTS: 173.7 billion roubles, + 5%
Telecommunications companies also increased revenues during the pandemic.
In the spring, traffic and load on the network significantly increased, noted in an interview with RBK President "Rostelekoma" Mikhail Oseevsky, while the decrease in traffic from offices was offset by increased household traffic, the number of requests for high-speed home Internet connection increased by 22%.
The epidemic, he said, dramatically expanded the use of technologies for remote work and learning, cloud solutions for remote interaction, Internet commerce, digital video services.
The telecommunications sector is resilient not only in the face of a pandemic, but in principle in any crisis, as these services have become an integral part of human consumption, says Fitch analyst Vyacheslav Bunkov.
In Russia, they are also among the cheapest in the world, so there is no need to give them up even in times of crisis, he adds.
With the closure of the company, he said, revenues from roaming were lost, but this was offset by increased domestic consumption.
NGO "Himautomatika" (part of Roshimprotection Corporation, part of Rosteh): revenue 76.7 million roubles, + 18 044%
The coronavirus pandemic this spring provoked an aziotic demand for antiseptics: for example, in mid-April, the deputy head of the Ministry of Industry Mikhail Ivanov on the TV channel "Russia 24" announced an increase in the production of skin antiseptics six times compared to the beginning of March, and the number of their producers from 10 to more than 60 (quote from "RIA Novosti").
In order to be able to use the technology of the manufacture of disinfectants, the Ministry of Defense has, among other things, applied "Uralhim."
At least one of the enterprises that took up this production only in the spring was able to increase the revenue by thousands of times.
The scientific and production association "Himautomatika," which in 1974-1986 was headed by the future mayor of Moscow Yuri Luzhkov and 63.8% of the registered capital of which "Rosteh" now controls, became the absolute leader in the increase of revenues among all companies reporting for the six-month period: in the first six-month period of 2019, as in the previous year, his earnings amounted to only several hundred thousand rubles.
A record minimum of 10 years of revenue was provided to the enterprise by the sale of disinfectants against the backdrop of import disruptions, the representative of "Rosteha" reported.
Chemical Automation releases medical equipment, in particular collects STEL plants for the production of disinfectants, and in the spring, against the backdrop of the epidemic, NGOs decided to diversify production and within three days set up the industrial production of their own disinfectant "Neutral Anolite ANK."
According to the representative of the state corporation, this allowed "Himautomatika" to meet the increased needs of both Moscow and the regions of Russia.
In addition, the company supplied personal protective equipment.
The prices of the products remained below market prices, passed on through the press service by the director-general of the NGO "Himautomatika" Maxim Pudov.