What prevents us from finding the source of the coronavirus?
Market of seafood in Wuhan (30 March 2020) / Hector RETAMAL / AFP
When the COVID-19 epidemic began in China, authorities quickly identified a possible source for the spread of the new coronavirus, the Wuhan market, where wild animals and their carcasses were sold.
But it has not yet been possible to identify an animal that could be a vector of the virus.
Meanwhile, the pandemic had taken on a global scale and calls had been made for an international investigation.
But China has begun to resist.
The most likely source of the new coronavirus is bats, because its genome is 96% identical to the genome of another coronavirus previously found in them in southwestern China.
However, many experts believe that it was introduced to humans through other wild animals - lizards or cysts (cat-like mammals).
It is important to determine which species is the vector in order to prevent a new epidemic.
The Huan market in Wuhan, which has become a hub for coronavirus distribution, specializes in seafood, but some stalls have also sold wild animals and their meat, says The Wall Street Journal investigation, which refers to sellers and buyers.
This was confirmed by the newspaper and Jiangwei Disinfection employee Lu Junqing, who was summoned to renovate the stalls in the early morning of 31 December.
Lou did not realize at the time that the market could be a hotbed of a new unknown disease.
It was closed the next day.
On 31 December, China informed the World Health Organization (WHO) of an outbreak of unknown pneumonia in Wuhan, although the first cases began to reach the city's hospitals in early December.
The doctors did not immediately realize that they were dealing with the new virus, and when some of them warned about it, the authorities forced them to "stop spreading rumors," as in the case of Dr. Lee Wenlian (who died in February).
According to Lou, he himself did not see bats, lizards or cysts on the market.
But when his team of disinfectants arrived, the local office of the Centre for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) was already there, and on 1 January, the CDC staff from Beijing joined them.
In the following days, they took live and dead animals, and Lou and his team helped the CDC collect faeces and fur samples from dead animals, mostly dogs and rabbits.
But when experts from Taiwan and Hong Kong came to the market in mid-January, a CDC representative told them that no wild animals had been found on the market and other animals they had not discussed, the WSJ told the person present at the meeting.
The CDC's official statement only states that its employees arrived at the market from Beijing on January 1 and collected 585 "environmental samples" from sewage, kiosks and garbage trucks, 33 of which were found to be coronavirus.
Samples taken from animals are not mentioned in the declaration.
Although, according to Columbia University virologist Ian Lipkin, citing his Chinese friends, the CDC collected samples of meat and animals but found nothing on them.
Also, according to Lipkin, CDC director George Gao told him that Chinese scientists were unable to determine from which animal coronavirus had been found on "environmental samples."
Beijing only published a decryption of the coronavirus genome, but did not share with foreign scientists samples taken on the Wuhan market.
Some experts believe that it is too late to investigate the market.
"This should have been done in late December or early January," says Dirk Pfeiffer, Professor of Veterinary Medicine and Epidemiology at Hong Kong City University (quoted by WSJ).
- Now we will have to rely on other circumstantial evidence, so it will be almost impossible to pinpoint the source of the virus. "
In February, a WHO mission visited Wuhan and other cities.
Chinese officials and scholars then showed a willingness to cooperate, notes mission participant Clifford Lane.
In particular, the CDC promised to create and show an epidemiological map of the Huan market, showing the location of animal stalls and which sections of the market were visited by people infected with coronavirus.
But so far the CDC has not done that.
WHO regularly requests the Chinese Government as its investigation progresses, but has never received a response, the organization reported in response to a request from WSJ.
The National Health Commission of the People's Republic of China only informed WHO that the investigation is now under the responsibility of the Ministry of Science and Technology of the People's Republic of China, but it also did not respond to the request of WHO for information, the organization informed the newspaper.
The Ministry did not respond to WSJ's requests for comments.
Lipkin of Columbia University suggests another way to find the source of the virus is to test blood samples from people with pneumonia by December 2019.
But the Chinese authorities have not yet given permission to do so...................
This method is used in France and the United States, and has already produced results that change the perception of the pandemic.
In late December, it turned out that a Frenchman who had been admitted to a hospital in the Paris suburb with flu symptoms and had not visited China (but his wife was able to communicate with Chinese in Paris) had contracted a new coronavirus.
It was previously believed that the first confirmed case of infection in Europe was recorded on 24 January in France by a businessman who arrived from Uhan.
Uncertainty about the emergence of a new type of coronavirus has already caused political conflicts.
Washington stated that he had evidence of the origin of the virus in Wuhan's fly-mouse laboratories.
But he has not yet released them, and Beijing denies these allegations.
In turn, Zhao Lixian, a representative of the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs, theorized that the coronavirus could have been created by the US military and brought to China.
The US also denies this.
Many scientists, including Anthony Fawcett, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, doubt the artificial or laboratory origin of the virus.
The US is increasing pressure on China.
On May 12, Senator Lindsey Graham proposed that Congress pass the COVID-19 Accountability Act, which would allow the president to impose sanctions on China unless it cooperated and provided a full account of the events that led to the coronavirus outbreak.
"The Communist Party of China must be held responsible for the disastrous role it played in this pandemic," Graham said, adding that if it had not been for her "deception," the virus would not have appeared in the US.
The bill's authors are Republicans, while critics of President Donald Trump and Democrats believe that the White House is simply trying to divert attention from its failure to stop the spread of the virus in the US, notes Reuters.
"If the presidential administration wants action from Congress, it must finally show us the 'evidence' [of China's guilt in the origin of the virus] that it allegedly has," said an aide to one of the Democratic Congressmen.
Due to the ongoing uncertainty, the COVID-19's appearance has damaged relations between China and Australia.
In April, Prime Minister Scott Morrison called for an independent international investigation into the causes of the COVID-19 outbreak.
In response, Beijing accused Canberra of allying with Washington and conducting an anti-Chinese political campaign.
Australia continued to press for an investigation, and China threatened to boycott its products.
As a result, on 12 May, it banned the importation of beef from four Australian companies on the grounds that it was not in conformity with certain standards.
"It seems like a deliberate attempt to punish Australia," says Lowy Institute research analyst Richard McGregor (quoted in the Financial Times).
These companies account for up to 20% of Australian beef exports to China, according to Reuters, Patrick Hutchinson, head of the Australian Meat Industry Council.
China can easily find alternative suppliers from other countries, industry participants note.