The first case of coronavirus was reported in Italy in November 2019.
New studies by Italian scientists show that the first case of coronavirus infection in Italy was probably recorded as early as 10 November 2019, rather than early December as previously thought.
This is reported by European Truth with reference to Ansa.
The study was published in the British Journal of Dermatology by scientists led by Raffaele Janotti of the Milan State University in cooperation with the Italian Diagnostic Centre.
Scientists believe that the first patient with COVID-19 in Italy was a 25-year-old resident of Milan.
Researchers re-examined samples of skin biopsy of patients with atypical dermatosis who failed to make an accurate diagnosis in autumn 2019.
They previously found that there were cases where COVID-19 affected only the skin of patients.
Previously, the number 1 patient was a child who was diagnosed with coronavirus in December 2019.
Based on what we 've seen in recent months in patients with COVID who have skin lesions, I wondered if we could find something like this before the pandemic officially started.
And we really found this in histological studies conducted in some patients in autumn 2019, "Janotti said.
"In our work already published in international journals, we have shown that during this pandemic there were cases where the only sign of COVID-19 infection is skin pathology," he added.
And there was also the case of a young woman who had only skin lesions (and at first suspected a red wolf) and slight sore throat.
Her biopsy, conducted on 10 November, revealed the presence of SARS-CoV-2 RNA gene sequences, COVID-19 "fingerprints" in skin tissue.
A patient later contacted by scientists reported no symptoms of COVID-19 infection, a disappearance of skin lesions in April, and a positive antibody test in June 2020.
Thus, it is the oldest scientifically documented case of the presence of coronavirus.
But perhaps by continuing the search, we will also find it on samples from October 2019, "Janotti said.
Early studies showed that the first cases of COVID-19 in Italy date back to January, while in Lombardy the virus spread even before the first tests were performed.
It was later reported that coronavirus had already been present in northern Italy in December, more than two months before the first case of the disease was discovered.
If you notice an error, select the required text and press Ctrl + Enter to report this revision.