Satellite photos show that coronavirus may have struck Wuhan earlier - scientists
Satellite photos show that coronavirus could have struck Wuhan earlier - scientists - Photo
Satellite photos may indicate that the coronavirus struck Wuhan earlier than the Chinese authorities claimed.
Researchers from Harvard University have come to such conclusions, BBC-Ukraine reports.
Read us on Telegram: verified facts, only important
It is noted that visible changes in traffic near the Uhan hospitals since August 2019 suggest that coronavirus spread there several months before it became widely known.
Peak activity is reported to coincide with active Internet search for symptoms such as cough and diarrhoea.
Harvard scientists studied data from a paid satellite resource that showed the traffic of about five hospitals in Wuhan, comparing photos taken in late summer and autumn 2018 with the same period in 2019.
As an example, it is reported that in October 2018, researchers counted 171 cars parked near a hospital in Wuhan.
A year later, in October 2019, there were 285 cars at the same location, 67% more.
At the same time, the Chinese Internet search engine has intensified its search for symptoms, which were later identified as signs of a new coronavirus.
According to scientists, much remains to be done to fully understand how outbreaks of such diseases are increasing and spreading among the population.
It is noted that if the infection, although unidentified, was present as early as August and people were leaving Wuhan, including abroad, this explains the evidence of earlier cases of COVID-19, which is beginning to come from other countries.
A spokesman for the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs reportedly rejected the suggestions of American scholars.
"I think it's ridiculous - to draw such conclusions based on external observations of traffic flow," he said.
In late 2019, a previously unknown SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus appeared in Wuhan, which may cause a potentially fatal development of pneumonia.
205 countries and territories have been affected.
On the morning of 9 June, in the world of COVID-19, 7,193,988 people fell ill, 408,628 died, 3,535,491 recovered.
LIGA.net keeps a chronicle of the main news about the virus.