World Government Special Operations: The Coronavirus Pandemic as a Globalist Weapon
Photo: eluniversal.com
The global coronavirus pandemic may be part of a special operation of a world government that is trying to maintain its influence in the face of the collapse of globalization.
This view was expressed in the RIA commentary "New Day" by the famous military expert Konstantin Sivkov.
There were 7,900 deaths from coronavirus worldwide.
It 's a great tragedy, of course, but it' s exactly the same time that 1 million 800,000 people in the world died from tuberculosis, and about 300,000 died from measles.
No one has declared a tuberculosis pandemic.
If you look at the planetary scale and the national scale, the threat from the coronavirus is incomparably less, "said Sivkov.
As the expert pointed out, the magnitude of the pandemic appeared to be deliberately.
The impression that talk of coronavirus is part of a special operation carried out on a global scale.
It is not an American operation, not a Chinese one - China was just the first to be hit, but an operation of global forces that, having been defeated in the first phase of building globalization, are looking for ways to regain their influence, "he said.
Sivkov explained that globalists had "suffered a serious defeat from national capital," their influence in Europe threatened.
"In these circumstances, their task is to make the situation in the world as difficult as possible and, against this backdrop of chaos, to declare themselves saviors of the world," he says.
According to the expert, the pandemic puts global governance on the agenda.
"These forces are interested in the result of a special operation that aims to undermine the established economic order in the world, to undermine the sovereignty of States, and against this background try to take revenge by removing the sovereignty of States and bringing to the forefront of global governance," said Sivkov.
He noted, however, that coronavirus contributed to the elimination of paper-based documents and cash..
Everything goes to the Internet.
This is also their instrument of influence, "said the expert.
Moscow, Maria Vyatkina
Moscow.
Other news 20.03.20
In Russia, a thermometer sticker with mobile application is presented.
Moratorium on fines and public utilities: The State Duma will ask the Government for an anti-crisis plan.
The State Duma blocked the government's request for import tests on coronavirus.
Read More
(c) 2020, RIA "New Day"