Scientists blame the US and China for creating the coronavirus
The SARS-COV-2 coronavirus was probably developed by Chinese and American scientists, believed by Norwegian vaccine scientist Birger Sørensen.
According to the researcher, the genetic sequence of the coronavirus indicates its laboratory origin.
Professor Angus Dalglish agreed.
In the Quarterly Review of Biophysics, experts published a study that found that the virus had not mutated since its transition from animals to humans, suggesting that SARS-COV-2 was originally adapted to humans.
In addition, Sørensen argues that the virus has properties different from those of SARS, which have never been detected in nature.
We see that it is not the result of natural development.
It was produced by Americans and Chinese during their studies of so-called "function acquisition mutations."
This is being done worldwide.
No one talks about it, "quoted by NRK on June 7.
The Norwegian assured that Washington and Beijing had long cooperated in the research, increasing the infectivity of viruses for scientific experiments.
Dalglish and Sørensen shared the view of former British intelligence chief Richard Dirlaw.
According to him, an accident may have occurred in one of the laboratories.
An outbreak of SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus was detected in late December in the Chinese city of Wuhan.
The epidemic has now spread to almost every country in the world.
In recent months, the US has claimed that Beijing may have been involved in the pandemic.
US President Donald Trump has promised to "punish" China for spreading the virus.
The Chinese authorities denied involvement, citing the natural origin of the virus and the timely measures taken.
Many scientists also believe that such a virus could not have been created artificially.
Play video
Play
No sound
Duration 0: 00
Loading: 0%
Progress: 0 per cent
Type of trocaONLINE
Time remaining - 0: 00
Play speed
Chapters
Chapters
Description of omission selected
Descriptions
Subtitles off, selected
Subtitles
captions settings, open the signature settings dialog
Signing off selected
Signatures
Sound track
Full Screen Mode
It is not possible to download the video due to network or server failure, or the format is not supported.
Font Size 50% 75% 100% 125% 150% 175% 200% 300% 400%
DefaultDone
Similar
Similar
US Senate Bill on COVID-19 Sanctions Against China
The "Swedish model" of coronavirus control has caused controversy among scientists
Trump's adviser is afraid to go to work because of the coronavirus
Soros heralds the end of the EU because of the coronavirus
Trump Gave WHO 30 Days to Meet US Terms
The Foreign Ministry of the Russian Federation considered the issue of China 's accession to START to be an imaginary one.
The US Breaks Relationship With WHO
Turkey to lift long-distance travel ban from 1 June
More than a third of Americans have given up Chinese goods
Zaharova commented on the US decision to break off relations with WHO
Italy to open borders on 3 June
China reintroduces quarantine in Russia's border region
In China, a man saved a girl who almost fell out of a window.
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Russia recommended that travel abroad be avoided
US accuses China of blocking US airlines' flights to the country
Share
Share
Code to insert the player into your site:
Autostart Click CTRL + C to copy the selected code