HIV Coronavirus: Nobel Laureate Declares Artificial Origin of COVID-19
Nobel Laureate Luc Montagne has speculated that COVID-19 is of artificial origin.
According to him, the new coronavirus contains HIV particles.
The scientist admitted that SARS-CoV-2 may have been accidentally released from a Chinese laboratory in an attempt to create an AIDS vaccine.
Side effects
French virologist Luc Montagnier, who won the 2008 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for his discovery of the HIV retrovirus in 1983, believes that coronavirus was created in Wuhan's laboratory.
According to him, this laboratory has specialized in coronaviruses since the 2000s.
Montañe said that he and the mathematician Jean-Claude Perez analyzed the sequence of the SARS-CoV-2 genome and found "inserts" in it from the HIV genome.
It 's not natural, it' s the work of molecular biologists - for what purpose - it 's unclear - it' s my job to present facts, I 'm not accusing anybody, I don' t know who did it and why.
Maybe they wanted to produce an AIDS vaccine, "Montagne said on CNEws.
A similar study was previously attempted by a group of Indian scientists.
"They analyzed the genome and showed that the entire genome of this coronavirus contained a sequence of another virus, and - this is a surprise to me - this was a sequence of the immunodeficiency virus (AIDS)," said Montañe, adding that the scientist had to withdraw the publication due to "tremendous pressure."
Questions not answered
The scientific community has responded with mixed reactions to the French virologist's statement about the artificial origin of coronavirus.
For example, the Chief Scientist of the Institute of Molecular Biology.
Professor Pyotr Chumakov, V.A. Engelhardt of the Russian Academy of Sciences, considers Montague's conclusions not groundless.
According to him, specialists at the Uhany laboratory were working on various variants of coronavirus, ostensibly to study their pathogenicity.
"They were doing absolutely crazy things, in my opinion: for example, inserting into the genome that gave the virus the ability to infect human cells," Chumakov told in an interview with the Moscow Komsomol.
He admitted that in Wuhan they could work on an HIV vaccine without any malicious intent.
"Although no one can rule out that there were curators behind scientists who directed actions in another direction they needed," added a Russian scientist.
As the expert pointed out, no one should be accused as yet, but a serious investigation is needed.
In his view, it is likely that some Chinese scientists will eventually be blamed for the spread of the virus.
Academician of RAS, immunologist Valery Chereshnev, in turn, recalled that during the discovery of HIV there was also a lot of controversy about its possible human nature.
"In order to speak of the artificial origin of coronavirus, it is necessary to find an explanation why this virus is also present in bats," says the expert.
Chinese Foreign Ministry official Zhao Lixian, commenting on publications on the possible artificial origin of the virus, stated that this theory is not supported by evidence.
The most likely version of the coronavirus was reported by WHO official Fadela Chaib.
According to her, the virus was "not created in the laboratory," and bats became its probable "ecological reservoir."
The virus was transmitted to humans through an "intermediate link" that has yet to be established.