Vitamin C and buzin: what helps in the fight against new coronavirus?
The immune system is crucial in the fight against coronavirus.
It is important to have sufficient vitamins and other useful substances.
Vitamin C and vitamin D are thought to help against Covid-19.
Wearing masks, keeping a proper distance, washing hands - in the time of coronavirus these rules apply all over the world.
But is that the only way to prevent the new virus?
Actually, no.
There is something else as important as washing your hands.
A well-functioning immune system.
Vitamins C and D, as well as some micronutrients such as zinc, iron and selenium, play a very important role in this regard.
Their absence can be catastrophic - without them, the immune system cannot fully function - that is, to block viruses and other pests.
For people who are already at risk, this can lead to a very severe course of Kovid-19 disease.
"Every cell in our body uses different micronutrients to function," explains biochemist Adrian Gombart of Oregon State University.
Microelements include, for example, iron, iodine, zinc, selenium, and other minerals and vitamins, as well as omega-fatty acids.
They do not provide the body with energy, but they are very important for maintaining the body's basic functions.
This applies not only to metabolism, but also to the immune system.
In vitamin D deficiency, for example, viruses can easily enter the body because its protective system does not work optimally.
Disinfecting microorganisms must first overcome the protection of skin and mucous membranes.
They then encounter various proteins with antimicrobial action.
If viruses and bacteria are able to overcome all these obstacles and still penetrate the body, it does not mean that they have won the battle.
They are waiting for phagocytes - cells that absorb and destroy bacteria, foreign particles and other cells.
The new coronavirus can only be destroyed by a specific immune response.
Lymphocytes detect harmful alien microorganisms, including viruses, and then begin to produce antibodies that attack harmful invaders.
These processes can only be normal if the body is well supplied with micronutrients such as vitamin C.
The body needs to fight free radicals in addition to participating in the creation of antibodies without which the body cannot cope with the disease.
I'm sorry.
"That's why patients with Covid-19 have been given high doses of vitamin C from the beginning," said Isabel Schiffer, who conducts genetic studies of aging in humans.
She also focuses on the role of natural medicine.
For example, the extract of buzin is one of the plants that can play an important role in the fight against coronavirus.
"Clinical studies have shown that the extract of buzin reduces the likelihood of a cold as well as respiratory diseases in influenza," she explains.
Food or pills?
The beneficial effect of buzin is proven by biochemistry - the plant contains many vitamins and micronutrients.
Scientists such as Isabel Schiffer and Adrian Gombart believe that people are now encouraged to increase the dose of vitamins and other micronutrients with food supplements.
Vitamin D deficiency is particularly common.
However, there are other views on the matter.
The position of the German Institute for Risk Assessment (BfR) states: "A full and varied diet is sufficient to provide the body with all essential substances."
However, the Institute recognizes that there are exceptions to this rule - for example, during pregnancy and breastfeeding, when the mother needs significantly more vitamins and micronutrients.
Older persons also have an increased need for them and are at risk for Covid-19.