In Brazil, the compulsory wearing of masks in public places has been abandoned
Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro has refused to introduce the compulsory wearing of masks in public places and has opposed the distribution of these protective devices to the population.
These paragraphs were contained in a law approved by Parliament and submitted to it for approval on the compulsory use of masks.
However, local media reported that the Head of State, who denied the seriousness of the threat posed by the coronavirus, vetoed it.
The bill passed through parliament required Brazilians to cover their mouths and noses with personal protective masks during an emergency caused by the coronavirus pandemic, as well as during visits to public places, including shops, temples and schools, when using public transport.
It also contained a paragraph obliging State authorities to distribute masks to the most economically vulnerable sectors of the population and companies to their employees.
Those who did not wear masks were asked to pay fines.
Bolsonaro considered all of this unnecessary.
He criticized the bill while it was still under discussion, stating that it would allow people to be fined for violating the massage regime even when they were at home.
There was, however, no such paragraph in the text of the document.
Brazilians opposed the resumption of urban trade
It is worth noting that the Bolsonaro veto does not override laws and decrees enacted in individual states and municipalities.
In Brasilia and São Paulo, local authorities made the wearing of masks compulsory under the threat of a fine.
By the way, for violating this rule by the President of Brazil himself, the Supreme Court has already fined R $2,000 (equivalent to 340 euros or 26,000 rubles).
However, this decision was overturned on appeal.
It is noteworthy that Bolsonaro vetoed the law at the same time as it was reported that the number of people infected with coronavirus in the country exceeded 1.5 million.
Over 63,000 people were killed by COVID-19.
However, the WHO saw the situation stabilized.