"The virus was already here": an Oxford scientist allowed a coronavirus to exist in "dormant" mode before the pandemic.
Coronavirus could be present around the world in a "dormant" state before first appearing in China in December, says a scientist from Oxford.
In his view, this is indicated by the traces of coronavirus found in sewage samples taken long before the pandemic.
The virus was "activated" when the environment became the most favorable
The new SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus may not have originated in China, but has long been "dormant" around the world, according to Tom Jefferson, Senior Associate Professor of the Center for Evidence Medicine at Oxford University, quoted by The Telegraph.
According to Jefferson, this is indicated by increasing evidence that the virus was present all over the world until last winter.
For example, a team of scientists from the University of Barcelona reported on 26 June that coronavirus had been detected in urban wastewater samples taken in March 2019, more than six months before the first known human infection in China.
The Italian National Institute of Health announced on 19 June that coronavirus had been detected in samples of dirt from Turin and Milan, which were taken in December 2019.
At the time, there was no known confirmed case of the disease in Italy.
On July 3, the Federal University of Santa Catarina in Brazil reported that a new coronavirus had been found in the waste water of Florianopolis, with samples taken on November 27, 2019, two months before the first confirmed case in the country.
"I think the virus was already here, and by" here "I mean" everywhere. "
It is quite possible that we have encountered a 'dormant' virus that has been activated under certain environmental conditions, "says Jefferson The Telegraph.
According to the scientist, many viruses in the world are inactive.
They may also be motivated by large numbers and overcrowding, Jefferson added.
He gave an example of the last major pandemic - between 1918 and 1919, about a third of the world's population - about 500 million people - fell ill with Spanish influenza.
According to Jefferson, about 30% of the population of Western Samoa (the Polynesian state) died of Spanish in 1918, although he had no contact with the surrounding world.
Sunday, The Sunday Times reported that in 2012, six men in China who were cleaning a mine of bat dung contracted coronavirus, a disease unknown at the time.
Three patients died.
Tests for all known diseases then yielded negative results in men, but antibodies to an unknown infection were found in the blood.
The symptoms were similar to SARS.
The Wuhan Institute of Virology examined 276 bat faecal samples and found 152 different species of coronaviruses.
Two were similar to SARS, one of which - ReBtCoV / 4991 - could have caused the disease of six men, the newspaper wrote.
RaBtCoV / 4991 was not mentioned again until January 2020.
This year, the genome of the new SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus was found to be 96.2% identical to RaBtCoV / 4991, samples of which had been stored for six years in a laboratory in Wuhan.
An article in Nature called the "old" virus RaTG13.
In 1991, Lee Sitin founded Mindray Medical International in Shenzhen.
Since then, the company has become the largest manufacturer of medical equipment in China.
Mindray has been active in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic since the virus first appeared in China: it has tripled the production of artificial lung ventilation devices (IVLs) at the Shenzhen plant to 3,000 units per month, according to Chinese media.
The company donated $4.6 billion in medical equipment, including urgently needed IVLs, to hospitals around the world, including Italy and Uhan.
Adam Glanzman / Bloomberg via Getty Images 1 of 8
Nationality: French
Status: $1.5 billion (109% increase since March 11)
Source of wealth: Modern
Bansel has been the CEO of Moderna Therapeutics, based in Cambridge, Massachusetts, since 2011, when he left a similar position at BioMérieux.
He owns 9% of the company, which recently received a grant of up to $483 million from the US Department of Health and Human Services to accelerate the development of the COVID-19 vaccine.
According to Bansel, doctors can obtain the vaccine by autumn 2020 for use in emergencies.
DiaSorin 1 of 8
Nationality: Italian
Status: $4.5 billion (32% increase)
Source of wealth: DiaSorin
Denegri was trained as a chemist and now owns 45% of the Italian biotech firm DiaSorin.
However, his career did not begin in the pharmaceutical industry: he first achieved major success in 1985 when he merged Gruppo Pro-Ind, a spare parts company he founded in the 1970s, with Piaggio, the creator of the legendary Vespa scooter.
DiaSorin, which Denegri acquired in 2000, released both smear-based diagnostic kits and blood tests for COVID-19 antibodies.
Her antibody tests, released in April, are now being distributed in several regions of Italy.
DiaSorin has factories in the US, UK, Germany and Italy.
Nationality: South Korea
Status: $8.4 billion (22% increase)
Source of wealth: Celltrion
In 2002, he founded the biopharmaceutical company Celltrion in Seoul, and in 2008, he launched it on the stock exchange.
The company focused on the production of diagnostic kits and the search for possible treatments for COVID-19.
Clinical trials of the antiviral drug in humans are expected to begin in the third quarter of 2020.
A set of Celltrion for rapid self-diagnosis, which the company claims can produce results within 15-20 minutes, will be released in the summer.
Nationality: French
Status: $7.6 billion (25% increase)
Source of wealth: BioMérieux
In 1963, Mérieux founded BioMérieux as a diagnostic unit of the Institut Mérieux, a medical conglomerate that was created in 1897 by Mérieux's grandfather, Marcel.
The company is now headed by Allen's son, Alexander.
The COVID-19 diagnostic kit, which BioMérieux released in late March, reduced the testing time for the virus to 45 minutes.
Nationality: Swiss
Status: $3.2 billion (10% increase)
Source of wealth: Roche
Maja Oeri is the daughter of Fritz Hofmann-La Roche, who founded the Swiss pharmaceutical company Roche in 1896.
It owns approximately 5% of the company, and in 2011 it separated its share from the family.
On March 19, Roche announced that it was moving to phase three clinical trials of tocilizumab, an anti-arthritis drug, to treat patients with COVID-19 in the United States.
In addition, the company has developed a new serological test that detects antibodies in people who have already suffered from the disease.
Roche plans to begin delivery of tests to the US and Europe in early May.
Leonard Schleifer
Nationality: United States
Status: $2.2 billion (11% increase)
Source of wealth: Regeneron Pharmaseutics
George Yankopoulos
Nationality: United States
Status: $1.2 billion (14% increase)
Source of wealth: Regeneron Pharmaseutics
In 1988, Regeneron Pharmaceuticals CEO Leonard Schleifer founded a pharmaceutical company in Tarrytown, New York, and a year later George Yankopoulos joined him as scientific director.
On March 16, Regeneron began clinical trials of sarilumaba, a drug against rheumatic arthritis, on patients with COVID-19 in New York City with the French company Sanofi.
Preliminary results from the second phase of testing showed that the drug rapidly lowered the level of the key marker of inflammation, and the third phase of testing will take place in May.
Nationality: German
Status: $6.9 billion (11% increase)
Source of wealth: BioNTech
The Strungman billionaire twins became wealthy when they sold Hexal to Novartis in 2005 for about $7 billion.
They are now investing in a number of health and biotechnology companies through their Swiss investment firm Santo Holding.
Their most famous investment is BioNTech, a young biotech company from Mainz, Germany.
Together with Pfizer and Fosun Pharmaceuticals, BioNTech is working on the COVID-19 vaccine: the first human trials began in Germany on April 23, and the company is now awaiting regulatory approval to begin delivery to the US.
Nationality: Singapore
Status: $12.6 billion (1% increase)
Source of wealth: Mindray
In 1991, Lee Sitin founded Mindray Medical International in Shenzhen.
Since then, the company has become the largest manufacturer of medical equipment in China.
Mindray has been active in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic since the virus first appeared in China: it has tripled the production of artificial lung ventilation devices (IVLs) at the Shenzhen plant to 3,000 units per month, according to Chinese media.
The company donated $4.6 billion in medical equipment, including urgently needed IVLs, to hospitals around the world, including Italy and Uhan.
Nationality: French
Status: $1.5 billion (109% increase since March 11)
Source of wealth: Modern
Bansel has been the CEO of Moderna Therapeutics, based in Cambridge, Massachusetts, since 2011, when he left a similar position at BioMérieux.
He owns 9% of the company, which recently received a grant of up to $483 million from the US Department of Health and Human Services to accelerate the development of the COVID-19 vaccine.
According to Bansel, doctors can obtain the vaccine by autumn 2020 for use in emergencies.