A scientist in Germany called it a very likely version of the leak of the covid-19 from the lab.
(1) Do not insult one another
(2) W.
Colleagues, when a dispute arises, respect
3) When you ask for advice and recommendations, be prepared to receive criticism (Internet, picabu in particular is not a medical site).
There would be a universe where journalists don 't throw meaningful information out of headlines.
A German physicist called it very likely...
Journalists were raped in Lentesra.
First line of the post.
How can a physicist be sure?
What prevents him from making honest mistakes?
He is guilty only of believing journalists to be themselves.
Biologists and chemists have not yet presented the public with more or less sophisticated models.
Wiesendanger stressed that his work is not intended for the scientific community, but is intended to:
And you just have to understand the difference between "scientifically proven" and "scientists predict."
The fact that a person is a scientist does not mean that he cannot misunderstand or misunderstand something.
ballerinas poop too.
The passing of the scientists in the article makes it an automatic bar.
Wiesendanger stressed that his work is not intended for the scientific community, but is intended to:
Previously there were "British scientists" now they were joined by colleagues from Germany (
Maybe he immigrated to Germany from Britain.
Boris Slutsky
Physics and Literature
Something physics in honor.
Some lyrics in the box.
It's not a dry matter.
It's about world law.
So they didn't reveal anything.
We should be!
So weak wings -
Our sweet yamba.
And in the Pegasus flight
Our horses don't take off...
That physics in the beginning,
It's the lyrics in the box.
It's self-evident.
It's useless to argue.
So it 's not even offensive.
More interesting.
Watch like foam,
Our riffs are falling apart
And greatness to the degree
It deviates from logarithms.
1959.
Conducted his own investigation - analyzed scientific publications and media material
Is he a scientist?
I had two wax publications with the results of that analysis.
And that's it.
Wiesendanger stressed that his work is not intended for the scientific community, but is intended to:
Many people are not only scientists, but also opinion-makers, many others are not only officials, but also corrupt.
Meta-analysis is now a very common method.
"Indirect evidence" and "99.9% confident"
noow
Hey, hey, hey, hey,!!!!!!!!!!!
Until then, modern military science has come down, in Russia, where a lot of people are being harassed by newcomers and no one is being killed.
China developed this virus, and it has a mortality rate below 5 percent.
What did the scientists do?
Imperfection is complete.
According to Sheldon Cooper, biologists aren 't scientists at all, but physicists understand how the world works.
In 2015, a dry publication appeared on the planet's main scientific website: https: / / www.nature.com / articles / nm.3985
What was the subject of that scientific publication?
In 2014, a group of scientists at the University of North Carolina began a study by taking a non-human coronavirus from the Chinese bat SHC014 (its surface protein) and transferring it to the then-known human SARS virus.
As a result, a new hybrid, suitable for human epidemics, was successfully synthesized in vitro and in vivo through work........
Which I had to prove.
For the stated purpose of the study (note: quite civil, not military) was "to understand," but could it happen in nature that the bat virus itself mutates and becomes dangerous to humans?
It was for this purpose that the virus was helped to mutate in a test tube.
And finally proved: cheers, that 's possible!
A SARS-like cluster of circulating bat coronaviruses shows potential for human emergence: we synthetically re-derived an infectious full-length SHC014 recombinant virus and demonstrate robust viral replication both in vitro and in vivo...
The work we did not see was, however, noticed by colleagues in the scientific world.
Still in progress.
With a general verdict: "Yes, what are you doing there, you fucking yawns, the beaches are already gone?"
Well, in more scientific terms, maybe even Latin.
In 2014, the United States government adopted a moratorium on the use of human pathogens.
The moratorium was an American one, extending only to American institutions funded by research grants in the field of health (nih.gov).
It has become impossible to complete the SARS-coronavirus-avian hybrid project in North Korea.
The work was completed in China.
Where exactly?
Oh, the Institute of Virology of the Chinese Academy of Sciences in Wuhan.
The Chinese Academy of Sciences may have funded the end of the study, since the US USAID-EPT-PREDICT (the source of funding in the end article) does not fund science abroad.
An interesting detail: the notes to the article are more interesting than the article itself.
According to the rules of the journal Nature, researchers are required to provide a wealth of information after reference to literature: how human mice were treated, how human lung tissue cells were taken, and how they complied with safety measures...
In particular, it states that the Uhani laboratory has the 3rd degree of biosecurity (BSL3).
Although for such dangerous studies the degree of protection should be as high as: 4.
Already aware that they are not doing anything, Chinese researchers wrote that they have added some UPS fans, and the type has become standard...
In the final article, started in North Carolina and finished in China, we can see several Chinese names in the list of authors.
In particular, Lady Shi Zheng-Li.
All these years, she hasn 't faded away: in 2017, before, and after, she continued to work in her less secure lab on the problem of how to deliver a human coronavirus to a fly?
It was Shi Zheng-Li who was diagnosed with a new coronavirus in December 2019.
At the time, there were only 27 patients.
Understandably, in any other millionaire city, no one would have noticed twenty-seven new cases of pneumonia, thousands of which are in hospitals.
I believe that even in Wuhan, no one would have noticed this: it is unlikely that the city's hospitals reported every day to the virologist Shi Zheng-Li, who is now infected with pneumonia and who is proud.
But if one of the 27 patients was a lab worker, that would explain a lot.
Summary.
We have every reason to believe that a hybrid of a dangerous but inexorable SARS and a very flightless but uninteresting coronavirus has begun to create North Carolina 's criminal tentacles for scientific interest, to understand if such a threat is possible.
After being banned from bugging, the virus was successfully developed by even more criminal Chinese colleagues at Uhani's inadequately protected laboratory.
And all of the above had the opportunity, as we see, to happily write a joint article and report on the successfully created human virus with the same pride and directness.......... But then the Chinese did not follow the test tubes or the staff, and the virus came out to walk behind the walls of the laboratory.
The Chinese government knew from the beginning what had happened and understood the scale.
And I tried to take immediate action.
And it quickly alerted other countries to the beginning of a very dangerous epidemic.
And governments of all countries (including Russia) also understand the scale very well.
Just in case, the Chinese wrote a story about the fish market.
Mol, we know for sure that this is exactly where, plus or minus 10 meters, a new virus suddenly emerged.
Which, so coincidentally, is identical in class, genus, properties and characteristics to the artificially created and joyfully described strain in scientific works, which has been stored precisely in the same city in laboratory test tubes for the past 5 years...
The text is not mine.
I also believe in laboratory origins.
Scientists are putting forward a hypothesis - convincing evidence of any rent violation.
But there 's a very credible article in a scientific journal from an American office, where they' re telling us in 2015 how they produced a coronavirus that can reproduce in human culture.
It is now politicized from the top.
And the noise will be more than the newcomer.
"human culture" wagon and small cart
And here 's an interesting coincidence: In August 2019, all USAMRIID laboratories in Fort Detrick were shut down for three months, presumably because of a dangerous virus leak.
I imagine what it would have been like if a scientist from Germany had said, "" I 'm 99.9 percent sure that Navalny was poisoned by Novice.
This is for a British scientist.
And by 0.1% - that Novichka poisoned Navalny...
Personally, I have no doubt now that this is an incident at the Uhani biolab.
The other versions do not stand up to criticism.
The subject specialists try to keep their mouths shut, and in any case public statements about it will not yield any profit, and trouble can easily be overcome.
With the same success, it could be disguised by foreign "dangerous business colleagues."
It is only a question of faith.
But it certainly raises a very different question - did not people play gods?
It 's not a nuclear bomb, it' s possible to release this thing anywhere without a lot of effort.
Well, that makes sense.
Countries with more than half of the economy in the service sector have shrunk.
Those who have production remain afloat.
And, because most of China's manufacturing industries + population discipline, the situation with coronavirus actually works for him.
should add "with probability of 99.9"
Typically, the epidemic broke out in China's New Year's holidays when they fuck pears anyway.
And then they just kind of slipped in.
And Europe continues to suck.
Nonsense...
Let's say the war started.
Soldiers are vaccinated, and enemies are not.
They are sent a gift that paralyzes not only the troops, but everyone in general.
You can take it with your bare hands.
Habre wrote a month or two later that it was a laboratory development.
And what did this scientist say?
The fact that the virus was created by man was discussed a lot as early as last spring.
And who distributed it to the people is questionable.
And we 're not likely to find out in the foreseeable future........