Trump proposed using sunlight and bleach to treat COVID-19.
The doctors asked me not to.
US President Donald Trump mistakenly suggested during a White House briefing on April 23 that sunlight could be used to treat people with coronavirus, CNN reports.
At the briefing, Internal Security Representative Bill Bryan presented research showing that coronavirus weakens when exposed to sunlight and heat.
Donald Trump then suggested that Americans who fell ill with COVID-19 could be treated by going out in the sun on a hot day.
The president asked the White House's coronavirus coordinator, Dr. Deborah Birks, "to talk to doctors and see if there is a way light and heat can be used for treatment."
The doctor stated that light and heat were not used for treatment.
Trump also stated that Deborah Birks should check whether light can be brought inside a person, for example through skin or other means.
"That sounds interesting," said the president.
He suggested that "ultraviolet or simply very powerful light" could be used for treatment.
The briefing also presented the results of a study that found that disinfectants such as bleach or isopropyl alcohol rapidly destroy the virus.
In response, Trump suggested testing whether these drugs could be used to treat coronavirus, for example, by injection.
According to Trump, disinfectants can kill the virus in a minute.
Sunlight can not be a potential cure for coronavirus, CNN said several doctors.
Doctors have warned that Trump's proposals for sun treatment and disinfectants make no sense.
Attempts to treat with sunlight can lead to burns, skin cancer and other consequences.
The World Health Organization had previously classified COVID-19 solar treatment as a myth.
Exposure to sun or temperature above 25 degrees does not prevent the spread of coronavirus, said WHO.
Experts in turn warned that ultraviolet lamps could harm a person if misused.
The head of the US Food and Drug Administration, Dr. Stephen Khan, after Trump's speech, urged citizens not to use disinfectants to ingest them.
Washington authorities also asked people not to inject themselves with disinfectants.
Alexander Baklanov