A large study in Denmark found that masks are not very protective of coronavirus.
And how do you know that?
review
This message (material) was created and / or disseminated by a foreign media acting as a foreign agent and / or by a Russian legal entity acting as a foreign agent.
At the end of November, a long-awaited study was published to determine the extent to which the masks provide real protection against the coronavirus to those who wear them (which is important to them and not to everyone else).
The work is valuable in its scope - scientists from Denmark have watched six thousand people for more than a month: three thousand have been given the task of wearing masks, and three thousand more have been given the task of leaving home without them.
Epidemiologists around the world hoped that the study would provide scientific justification for (or disprove) the need to wear masks.
A few days after its release, it was quoted in tens of thousands of tweets.
In most cases the overall conclusion was simple: the masks showed no effectiveness.
A small portion of the reviews criticized the methodology of the study, which critics believed discredited its results.
Medusa discussed how to correctly interpret the results of the study and what they mean in practical terms.
All Medusa materials on coronavirus are available under a Creative Commons CC BY license.
You can print them back!
The license is not valid.
What research is this?
A team of scientists from Denmark, at the beginning of the country 's spring epidemic, conducted the world' s largest randomized controlled open-source study on the effectiveness of wearing masks in public places.
The effectiveness in this case is the ability of masks to protect people from contamination.
Six thousand volunteers were divided into two almost equal groups: the first was asked to wear high-protection surgical masks outside the home; the second pledged not to wear masks.
In general, Denmark did not have a massage regime or any centralized restrictions on population mobility in May and June when the study was conducted.
There was only a quarantine regime for identified infected and recommendations for social distancing.
Volunteers were carefully selected to represent different segments of the population in both groups: by age, occupation, place of residence, social activity, household size, etc.
For example, people at risk - those who are often forced to contact a large number of people at work - were represented.
On average, volunteers spent 4.5 hours a day outside the home during the study.
Some volunteers from both groups tested antibodies to coronavirus prior to the study; all volunteers tested at the end of the study.
The volunteers regularly answered scientists with several questions: whether their households were infected; whether those wearing masks felt "social discomfort"; and whether, in their own opinion, masks were used carefully and correctly.
What are the results of the study?
Positive antibody tests at the end of the study yielded 42 individuals from the group wearing masks (1.8%) and 53 individuals (2.1%) from those not wearing masks.
In other words, they are believed to have carried the forge.
To avoid systematic errors, scientists have tested the result by reducing the composition of both groups in different ways.
For example, those who passed a positive test after the study but did not pass it before - all were considered infected before the study - were excluded from the sample.
Another excluded group were those who admitted that they did not wear the mask strictly according to instructions.
In all combinations of reduced groups, the result remained virtually unchanged - the difference between the prevalence rates among "masseurs" and "masseurs" did not exceed 0.4 percentage points.
These 0.3-0.4 percentage points do not have statistical significance (subject to the limitations on the accuracy of the study in its design).
So it was not possible to find a reliable benefit from wearing masks by scientists.
It was this conclusion (in the phrase "wearing masks is not effective") that spread across the social networks.
So you don't have to wear masks?
The study does not provide any basis for such a conclusion.
Rather, it demonstrates once again how difficult it is for scientists to measure any parameters of coronavirus distribution and to prove the effectiveness of the response to the epidemic.
Criticism of the Danish study seems to have begun even before the article was published.
She refused to publish several journals, including the prestigious medical journal The Lancet.
The article was eventually published in the reference journal Annals of Internal Medicine; dozens of critical reviews quickly appeared under the article.
Critics make statements of varying degrees of rigidity, ranging from "interesting work that unfortunately did not produce an adequate result" (in comments on the magazine's website) to "model of garbage science" (in the Twitter of popular author of economics books Nassim Taleb).
Here are some of the arguments against the methodology of the study:
The work does not take into account the benefits of wearing masks for those who have already contracted coronavirus, but do not yet have symptoms of the disease, and therefore visits public places calmly.
It is believed that these people are responsible for almost half the new infections.
There is an obvious contradiction: researchers from Denmark did not aim to prove or disprove the effectiveness of wearing infected masks to protect others from them - they were only interested in the benefits for people who have not yet been infected wearing masks.
The study does not take into account the possibility of infecting a house where no one is wearing a mask - from members of the household who are not wearing a mask and in public places as well.
Danish scientists tried to solve the problem by interviewing volunteers about whether they had cases in their families.
According to the victims, the infection in the families was, but almost equal to, in the case of "masseuses" and "masseuses."
On this basis, scientists could say that domestic contamination did not affect the results of the study.
But simply interviewing volunteers in this case is clearly not enough: their families could be asymptomatic but contagious; they could be distributed among groups in any proportion - as the study simply could not identify.
A similar problem related to the use of the "survey" method relates to data on correct and continuous wearing of masks.
Scientists did not follow the volunteers, relying only on their answers.
Forty-six percent of the Masochists claimed to have worn the mask at all times and according to instructions.
How many were actually there is not known.
The study was not "blind": the subjects knew exactly that they were using a means to reduce morbidity, not placebo.
Thus, the experiment itself had an effect on the behavior of the subjects, leading to systematic errors.
Usually, in randomized trials, both groups - who receive real medical intervention (medication, prophylaxis, etc.) and placebo - do not know what they have received.
When wearing masks, it was difficult to do so.
Clearly, those who wear masks can behave more carelessly than those who do not.
And that distorts the result.
Moreover, people without masks may be "socially excluded" in a society where the wearing of masks is widespread.
How to avoid this methodological error is not at all clear.
Thus, it can be said that Danish scientists have studied not the effectiveness of masks as such, but the effectiveness of wearing them as part of citizens in the light of society 's response to information about the spread of the deadly virus.
Due to the fact that wearing a mask was not accepted in Denmark at the time of the study, many (14% of volunteers reported this) experienced various social disadvantages when wearing a mask.
This, as Danish researchers themselves admit, may have caused volunteers to refuse to wear masks, even if they claimed to wear them regularly.
As a result, the effectiveness of masks found in Denmark could be lower than in countries where almost all masks are worn (at the request of the authorities or voluntarily).
On the one hand, it can be said that it is even good - not theoretical efficacy, but a situation close to real life is being studied: all countries around the world know about the virus and admit that masks can protect against it; everywhere, however, people behave differently and are infected at home and in public places (most likely far more often in public places).
However, this "real life" can vary from country to city at different times.
The Danish study, critics say, offers only a remote idea of how masks help in a country where there is no mass regime and there are not many infected.
In other countries, the benefits of wearing masks may be significantly greater (when it is massive) or, conversely, even less.
For example, the effect of masks on the spread of the virus may be less severe if there are already severe measures in place in the country or city to limit contact between people (including a partial ban on leaving the home).
In such a case the contacts are already limited and the masks will add little to the outcome (it is worth noting that in Denmark some of the time during which the study was conducted was elbow-down).
So what have we learned from this study?
It can be said that little new knowledge has been added.
The authors of the study (who do not insist at all that masks are definitely ineffective, and even call for them to be worn) have carefully suggested that the positive effect, if any, is very small.
The relatively low effectiveness of masks, for example, can be explained by the fact that the virus is more likely to be transmitted by aerosol than by larger droplets, which, according to technical tests, are well retained by high-quality masks.
However, scientists agree that a more substantial effect could simply not have been recorded by their research due to methodological constraints.
Critics' comments on the article suggest a different interpretation of the work based on other statistical methods.
According to her, wearing a mask has a 93% chance of reducing the risk of infection by 5% (with a significant - more than 50% - risk reduction virtually impossible).
If for every individual wearing a mask the effect is small by 5%, it can be huge for the spread of the epidemic.
The virus is spreading exponentially, so even a small reduction in the number of new infections after several "generations" of infections will result in a significant drop in the total number of patients.
Is there any chance that we will ever know exactly how effective masks are?
It may well be that there will be no solid scientific basis until the epidemic is over.
In order to avoid all the "inborn" errors that appear to exist in the work of Danish scientists, more sophisticated methods need to be used: to track the correct and careful wearing of masks, to invent the "placebo mask" that is not effective, etc.
In order to determine the effectiveness of masks to prevent infection by others, real contamination chains need to be investigated (e.g., by telephone billing or pre-installed applications that track people's contacts; such methods have already been used in other studies).
But there are obvious problems along this path:
Such studies will certainly be much smaller than the Danish ones (i.e., they will have fewer subjects); otherwise the study with more participants will be more accurate.
Research will be very expensive and labour-intensive.
Finally, the results of the work will need to be harmonized with studies carried out by other methods:
with a laboratory study showing high safety performance,
With extensive epidemiological studies, which, on the contrary, indicate that masks are less effective than other containment measures such as lockdowns.
So am I wearing a mask or not?
Yeah, we're writing about masks again.
We hope that scientists are aware of the second wave of coronavirus to wear or not to wear?
Dmitry Kuznets