COVID-19 immunity developed six years ago from other colds.
Photo: AGN "Moscow"
Today, many are concerned about the question: does the presence of antibodies to the new coronavirus guarantee immunity?
But the situation with immunity is much more complex.
Its presence depends not only on the presence of antibodies (immunoglobulins) in the blood, but also on the presence of important cells - T lymphocytes, T killer cells (CD8 cells) and T cells (CD4 cells).
T-killers are able to identify virus-infected cells and, if found, kill them themselves or call for help from other cells.
And T-healers increase the number and "killing" potential of T-killers specific to a particular virus.
A new study by Americans (so far this preprint) aimed to identify specific coronavirus antigens that cause the strongest cellular immune response - information that is very important for the future vaccine.
However, another important discovery occurred at the same time..
In every second sample of human blood donations taken in 2015-2018, specific CD4 + T lymphocytes were found, which today are found in absolutely all those who have passed the new coronavirus infection.
That is, it can be assumed that 50% of the population who have not yet experienced a new infection may already be immune.
In addition, CD8 + T lymphocytes are found in 70% of the blood of COVID-19 patients.
They were found in 20 percent of blood samples.
The results of the study suggest that a large proportion of the population may be cross-immune to SARS-CoV-2 due to previously transmitted "seasonal colds," i.e. "common" coronavirus.
Those who had previously been infected with other coronae could receive antibodies capable of handling the new virus.
Perhaps that is why most people carry the disease in a light form or without a clinical picture of the disease.
Donors whose blood samples were tested could definitely not have had COVID-19 in 2015-2018.
However, in about half of the cases, they were found to have a specific reaction of T cells to virus antigens.
The authors of the study believe that the case is cross-reactive immunity.
They tested the donor blood samples used in the experiment on antibodies to two of the four previously known human coronaviruses, HcoV-OC43 and HcoV-NL63, and obtained a positive result.
That is, these people had previously been infected with other coronavirus infections other than COVID-19, "notes senior research fellow of the CCB RAS Sergey Katzarap.
"This study is extremely important for understanding mechanisms of adaptive immunity," said MK, Head of Clinical Immunology and Allergology of the First MHMU.
Dr. I. M. Sechenova, Academician of the Russian Academy of Sciences, Honored Scientist of the Russian Federation Alexander Karaulov.
- If the etiology of COVID-19 has been studied, it is the new SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus, then there is constant debate about the formation of immunity to it.
Sometimes this immunity is pathogenic (people die from a cytokine storm or from an excess immune response), sometimes protective (which is important for creating vaccines).
Anti-viral immunity is based not only on the antibody response, but also on T-cell immunity, the reaction of T cells: SD-4 helper cells and CD-8 killer cells, and memory cells.
These cells are used to protect the body in response to a viral infection, including SARS-CoV-2, and, through them, in acute infection, the virus is eliminated, i.e. the virus is "cleared" and immunity to subsequent infection is formed.
And in that sense, everything goes according to the classic.
But the question is, what is the severity of the infection?
We see that elimination of the virus does not occur in some elderly people or people with severe diseases such as diabetes mellitus or cancer.
They have broken the link between innate and adaptive immunity; they lack adaptive immunity.
Today, the main hypothesis of the answer to the question why some are easy and others are hard is that those who are easy seem to have cross-immunity to other coronaviruses.
Cross reactivity occurs in some infections, such as influenza.
It has been established that H1N1 flu is easier for those who have cross-immunity to other influenza strains, that is, they have T-cells that are active against the virus, which allows them to recover faster.
Of course, Americans' work is preliminary, and more research needs to be done on heavy patients in hospitals.
And yet these data prove that cross-immunity in healthy people in response to SARS-CoV-2 is possible.
And that needs to be taken into account when creating vaccines.
- So T-lymphocyte possessors with an old coronavirus are more likely to get sick when they meet a new one?
- Yes, because of the same cross-reactivity between circulating coronaviruses that cause a common cold.
This is about 40-60% of healthy people who have no COVID contacts, to whom the T-cells of memory will potentially provide an immune response, that is, an active and sufficient T-cell cytotoxic response (killer) in addition to the antibody response.
But these killers are very difficult to diagnose, we need special lab studies...
In the meantime, another study by biologists from the University of Washington was published in the journal Nature.
A patient who suffered from severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS-CoV) in 2003 was found to have antibodies that could block work and SARS-CoV-2.
SARS-CoV is most closely related to SARS-CoV-2.
The scientists were able to obtain eight different antibodies using the patient 's memory B cells that blocked the virus to varying degrees.
And one of them demonstrated the ability to bind to the S-protein of the new SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus, which is responsible for the virus entering human cells, and is therefore protective, that is, protective.
This is very important, because it is the understanding of which fragments of the virus are protective that scientists suggest is necessary for the development of an effective vaccine against coronavirus infection, as well as for the new COVID-19 treatment.
"It is also a way of using an antibody cocktail to prevent and treat the severe course of the disease," says academician Karaulov...