WHO experts did not rule out that coronavirus appeared in China before it was officially announced
Missiles launched from the Gaza Strip towards Israel, 10 May 2021.
On Tuesday evening, Palestine launched over 130 rockets into Israel.
The media reported casualties, but the exact number was determined.
Complex of buildings of the Main Directorate of the General Staff of Russia (GRU), Moscow.
Russian military intelligence (GRU) personnel may be behind alleged acoustic attacks on US diplomats.
There is no clear evidence yet.
About that.
Preparations for the privatization of State property have begun in Kyrgyzstan.
The World Health Organization (WHO) warns that coronavirus restrictions lead to increased obesity in children, which threatens their health with potentially long-term consequences.
The World Health Organization (WHO) warns that coronavirus restrictions lead to increased obesity in children, which threatens their health with potentially long-term consequences.
Israel had launched air strikes on Gaza; Palestinian militants had launched rockets from a densely populated enclave, resulting in a significant escalation of the conflict caused by tensions in Jerusalem.
China 's population growth over the past decade averaged 0.53 per cent per year.
By the end of 2020, the country 's population had reached 1.411 billion, increasing by only 72 million in a decade.
CPJ logo.
The Committee to Protect Journalists (CPJ) called on the Uzbek authorities to release blogger Otabek Sattori, who had been sentenced to 6.5 years' imprisonment.
The building of Gymnasium No. 175 in Kazan.
In Kazan on Tuesday, a shooting took place at Gymnasium No. 175 on Jadata Fayzi Street on the eastern outskirts of the city.
Agencies, citing sources, reported the deaths of at least nine people, including one teacher.
The Republican Working Group on the complete transition to the Uzbek alphabet based on the Latin alphabet decided to continue public hearings on the draft law amending the law "On the introduction of the Uzbek alphabet based on the Latin alphabet" until 1 November this year.
French far-right leader Marine Le Pen.
In France, more than 145,000 people have already signed an open letter from a cadre of military personnel on the threat of civil war in the country.
Zamid Chalaev (Archive photo).
President Vladimir Putin awarded the title of Hero of Russia to the commander of the regiment named after Ahmad Kadyrov Zamid Chalaev.
Previously, the media had repeatedly reported his involvement in human rights violations in the Chechen Republic.
President of the Russian Federation Vladimir Putin and President of the Russian Sadyr......
On 10 May, the President of Kyrgyzstan, Sadyr Zhaparov, had a telephone conversation with the President of the Russian Federation, Vladimir Putin.
According to the press service of the Head of State, the conversation took place on the initiative of the Russian side.
President Shavkat Mirziayev with the head of "Uzhydroenergo" Abdugani Sanginov.
Sarajevo, May 2020.
On 10 May, the Criminal Division of the Supreme Court of Justice sentenced 17 persons who had been indicted in the case of the explosion of the Sardobinsky Reservoir dam.
About that.
Launch of rockets from Gaza into Israel, 10 May 2021.
In the Arab part of Jerusalem, more than 300 Palestinians were injured on Monday in clashes with police in the Al-Aqsa Mosque area on the Temple Mount in Jerusalem.
The group DarkSide, with roots in Russia, may be behind the attack on the Colonial Pipeline operator, reports American media.
Experts, however, believe that the Russian authorities are not involved in this cyber attack.
SpaceX states that "cryptocurrency is applicable beyond Earth orbit."
In India, as of 9 May, more than 400,000 cases of coronavirus have been reported.
In the same day, 4,000 people died in India from causes caused by coronavirus infection................
According to Voice of America, experts on the new coronavirus pandemic believe that the data released are probably understated.
Taliban announce a three-day ceasefire in Afghanistan for Ramadan
Afghan soldiers and Taliban fighters welcome the declaration of a ceasefire in connection with Ramadan.................
16 June 2018.
Fergana authorities said they would punish the banner manufacturers with German soldiers
Illustrative photo.
In Turkmenistan, about a thousand prisoners had been pardoned, and it was unknown whether there were political prisoners or prisoners of conscience.
As an alternative to relocating military and technology from Afghanistan, US analysts consider countries in Central Asia and the Middle East, The Wall Street Journal reported with references to US military officials.
The Special Republican Commission to Combat Coronavirus has authorized private medical institutions in the country to provide medical services to patients with COVID-19 until January 1, 2022.
The press service of the Ministry of Health of Uzbekistan reported this.
Israeli police attempt to extinguish the fire of growing mutual hostility, Jerusalem, 8 May 2021.
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu expressed support for a police operation against Palestinians after two nights of clashes in Jerusalem.
Rahmon discussed with Putin the conflict on the Tajik-Kyrgyz border and security issues
Presidents of Russia and Tajikistan Vladimir Putin and Emomali Rahmon in the Kremlin.