A former WHO virologist stated that COVID-19 had been specially developed in a laboratory.
The Chinese government deliberately created the COVID-19 virus and released it from the laboratory, according to virologist Li-Man Yan on Fox News.
Director Tucker Carlson asked her if she believed that the Communist Party of China had "deliberately" released the virus from the laboratory, to which she was answered, "Yes, of course it was intentional."
Dr. Yan stated that there would be more evidence for this claim in the future, recalling that she had held a high position in the WHO system and that this was a reason to trust her.
I worked at the WHO laboratory, it 's the world' s leading coronavirus laboratory, it 's at the University of Hong Kong.
I've been deeply involved in investigating the virus since the outbreak.
I have my own data and evidence from my sources at the Chinese hospital, and I also work with leading world virologists, "she said.
And based on the information I have, I can tell you that the virus was created in the lab and then spread around the world, causing all this damage. "
Fox news points out that this statement contradicts the opinion of White House Coroner Dr. Anthony Fawcett.
He had previously expressed doubts that the virus was artificially created.
"The evolution of the virus in bats shows that it could not be derived artificially, the mutations evolved naturally," said the scientist in May.
The University of Hong Kong has already responded to Dr. Yan's statements.
The organization's press release states that its allegations "do not correspond to the facts."
"In particular, Dr. Yan has never conducted any research into the transmission of a new coronavirus from human to human during December 2019 and January 2020," the report states.
Li-Man Yan is known to have fled China and now fears retribution.
She claims that in January 2019, her head at the WHO Hong Kong Laboratory, Dr. Leo Pun, commissioned her to study strange cases of SARS-like pneumonia recorded in mainland China.