Masks really help against the coronavirus.
It's the drops that carry him.
When the coronavirus pandemic epic was just beginning, the world was divided into those who immediately wore masks (and many did not take them off - in some South-East Asian countries people wear them from smog and exhaust gases) and those who, until the very last moment, did not want to burden themselves with them.
Disputes over the effectiveness of masks continued throughout this period.
But now a team of scientists from the US and Taiwan have published a study that explains the need to wear masks because of the nature of the particles that carry viruses.
The authors of an article published in the journal Science recall that the traditional control measures for airborne infectious diseases have been to isolate from society the obvious carriers of diseases that have been sneezing and coughing.
However, in the case of Covid-19, this was not the case because the infected people did not show any visible symptoms for a long time (and some did) and were active carriers of the virus.
When talking and simply breathing, they threw into the atmosphere an air-droplet mixture full of viruses that hung for long periods in the air, especially in enclosed spaces, in an aerosol state.
If inhaled, the mixture could reach deep into the lungs, where it was found to be contaminated.
The authors of the study note that when humans breathe, they emit moisture particles ranging from 0.1 to 1000 micrometers (previously called microns).
For example, one millimeter contains 1000 um.
These particles spread through the air at different distances depending on their size, attraction, inertia, evaporation rates and a number of other factors.
The larger particles settle faster on the surface, infecting it.
Those that are less than 5 um evaporate faster but are easier to transport by air over long distances.
Both routes - by air and in contact with infected surfaces - can potentially lead to contamination.
The main source of infection in China has been the "silent carriers," who did not suspect that the patient was ill.
Scientists have found that submicron-sized particles pose an increased risk by penetrating deep into the alveoli and bypassing the immune system, allowing the virus to replicate three times faster.
Thus, the person is not yet aware of the infection and is already an active carrier of the virus.
As the example of China showed, it was these "silent carriers" that did not show symptoms of infection in 79% of cases and were the source of further infection.
Even with the outbreak of SARS in 2003, it was found that the infection was spread mainly by air-droplet, but many countries still do not recognize that SARS-CoV-2 (officially known as the virus causing Covid-19) is infected in a similar manner.
Social distancing is a useful measure, but not a panacea for the coronavirus.................
In order to combat the spread of SARS-CoV-2, WHO recommended keeping the social distance at two metres, but this board was based on studies of air-droplet mixtures that were carried out as early as the 1930s.
Scientists then proved that relatively large droplets about 100 μm in size, caused by sneezing or coughing, settle quite quickly under the force of attraction.
The problem is that at that time there were no instruments and techniques for detecting particles smaller than one micrometre.
But today we know that a drop of 100 micrometers in the absence of wind will fall from a height of 3 meters in about five seconds, and a particle the size of one micrometer will stay in the air for more than 12 hours, writes the authors of the publication.
So the WHO advice about two meters may not be adequate for many rooms where the air-droplet mixture can hang in the air for hours, accumulate over time, and be transported by air flows (remember how air conditioners sometimes blow in your office) far beyond a couple of meters.
There are too many different factors for open spaces.
On the one hand, it seems that the concentration of viruses should drop sharply, and so does ultraviolet, killing them.
On the other hand, viruses can stick to particles of dust and other pollutants in the atmosphere and spread over long distances without losing their virulence.
Furthermore, if one considers that SARS-CoV-2 is contained in submicrons, the effect of its spread can be compared to cigarette smoke.
And if the smell came to you, then the viruses would come.
Cigarette smoke can be inhaled far away, so the virus can come to you from far away.
And here we come to the main thing - the masks.
In closed rooms, scientists recommend wearing closely related masks, even if you observe a social distance of two meters.
Otherwise, according to experts, neither testing, remote sensing, nor contact tracing will help, as anyone can become asymptomatic.
Even (even more so) doctors themselves cannot avoid infection, as it is usually by air that medical personnel in hospitals and nursing homes have been secondary infected.
Physicians must take special precautions
It was after it was discovered that transmission by asymptomatic carriers could have caused the worldwide spread of Covid-19 that WHO recommended that everyone wear masks without exception.
The authors of an article in Science note that masks do provide us with an important barrier, reducing the number of harmful viruses in the death of patients with little or no symptoms.
The material from which surgical masks are made significantly reduces the likelihood of Covid-19 infection and, if infected, the severity of the disease itself.
It is particularly important to wear masks in conditions where the virus can be concentrated: in health facilities, aircraft, restaurants and crowded spaces with poor ventilation.
Home-made masks work no better than professional masks.
The ability of home-made masks to efficiently filter air-droplet mixtures, despite differences in thickness, materials and number of layers, was found not to be much lower than that of professional surgical masks.
So you don 't have to refer to the lack of masks on the market: everything is said to be in your own hands.
Epidemiological data show that countries such as Taiwan, Singapore, and South Korea, as well as Hong Kong, which is part of China but largely autonomous, have been the best to cope with the spread of Covid-19.
It was in these countries that the wearing of masks was introduced.
In Taiwan, wearing masks became mandatory, and it helped.
For example, in Taiwan, with a population of 24 million, where the first case of coronavirus was reported as early as January 21, 2020, and where no strict quarantine was introduced, only 441 cases of coronavirus infection and 7 deaths were reported.
By comparison, in New York City, where 20 million people live, and the first case was reported on March 1, more than 350,000 people were infected with coronavirus.
24,000 people died.
By quickly putting into effect the plan developed after the SARS epidemic, Taiwan's authorities did not resort to severe quarantine, but adopted a series of measures that successfully prevented the spread of the infection.
One such measure was the compulsory wearing of masks in public places.
The authorities also prohibited local mask manufacturers from exporting them abroad, providing their citizens with sufficient protection at a reasonable price.
At the same time, many other countries still have a severe shortage of masks or sell them at black market prices.
In the opinion of researchers, such dramatic differences between countries in the availability and use of masks have played an important role in curbing or, conversely, in the spread of infection.