Under suspicion, Pangolin.
The natural source of the new coronavirus is still unknown
The "main suspect" in the transmission of the frightening coronavirus to humans is the mammal pangolin.
But convincing evidence of this requires new genetic research, and scientists continue to compete to identify the true source of the coronavirus that caused worldwide panic, says Nature News.
Recently, Chinese researchers, based on genetic analysis of the virus, have suggested that it comes from a scaly, ant-eating pangolin.
But now, after reviewing the first data and studying the genomes of three other pangolin coronaviruses, experts, without abandoning the idea of the pangolin nature of the infection, say that the mystery is still far from solved.
Identifying the source of the virus is important for health workers because it will help prevent the epidemic.
The suspicion that the pathogen passed to humans from animals is based on the history of other coronavirus diseases.
For example, the virus that caused severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) appears to have passed to a human from a cyvet, a predatory tropical mammal, in 2002.
Dozens of people infected at the beginning of the current outbreak were working on the animal market in Wuhan, China, and samples of coronavirus analysed there have not yet identified the source unequivocally.
The origin of coronavirus is currently monitored by three independent Chinese groups, including a team of virologists from the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention and a team from the Chinese Academy of Sciences.
Pangolins in China are in great demand because of their meat and scales, which are used in traditional medicine.
Although trade in these animals in the PRC is internationally prohibited, pangolins are smuggled from several countries in Southeast Asia and Africa.
According to researchers, genetic coronavirus from smuggled pangolins is 99% the same as the virus circulating in humans.
But this does not apply to the whole genome, but only to a specific site, which is called the receptor binding domain, and is responsible for the virus entering the host cell.
These findings were published on the bioRxiv preprint server at the end of February.
And the release of a version of the new coronavirus's pangolin nature at a press conference in early February is the result of "confusing misunderstandings between the bioinformatics team and the lab team," says Nature News.
A full-genome comparison showed a 90.3% match between pangolin and human viruses.
Marina ASTVACATURIAN