Barack Obama: Predictor or creator of the coronavirus?
In the United States, there are interesting publications about the political enemy of President Donald Trump, former President Barack Obama, who is supporting head of state rival Joe Biden in the presidential race.
Some publications say that Barack Obama was among the Americans who funded the Wuhan Biological Laboratory, others that he predicted the emergence of a new coronavirus.
Much of this is facilitated by Donald Trump's own ambiguous statements..................
In March 2020, information about the laboratory origin of the new coronavirus appeared in The Wall Street Journal.
Chinese scientist Botao Xiao of the South China University of Technology published an article there stating: "The killer coronavirus probably originated in a laboratory in Wuhan."
The Wuhan Institute of Virology publicly lists the names of those who finance his work on its official website.
These include a number of American organizations: the University of Alabama, the University of North Texas, the Ecohealth Alliance, Harvard University, and the National Wildlife Federation.
In a White House daily briefing on coronavirus, Donald Trump responded to a question about a $3.8 million research grant from the US National Institutes of Health to the Wuhan Institute of Virology.
The response was then published on the Daily Mail news report in a rather categorical form.
It was reported that the funding was implemented in 2015 through the merger of Barack Obama's family.
On April 17, 2020, another American publication, Newsmax Media, again asked the US president about the origin of the coronavirus laboratory grants.
Trump made it clear that he was working on the matter, including talking to his staff that morning.
Not specifically about Barack Obama's family, but the president said, "In 2015, there were mergers... Who was in charge of the White House then?"
The rest were supplemented by journalists, and with full justification.
Supporters of Barack Obama claimed that he had warned of the danger three years before the virus appeared.
Moreover, his administration allegedly left behind the current testing systems and a national supply of medical supplies that met the needs of the day, including thousands of IVLs.
Hence the questions to Trump - why didn't he take advantage of it, launch new production, and bring the situation to such a level?
Trump himself denies the "legacy" - what was, was not enough and relevant to a particular strain.
But he asks why it was not done (as we understand, given Obama's awareness)?
Barack Obama himself is not in debt - he said on Twitter today that Donald Trump's government "does not have an agreed national plan to combat the coronavirus pandemic."
At the same time, he praised state governors - Massachusetts, for example - for voicing their own plan for effective public health, which provides for universal testing and total tracking of infected patients.
Note that the former president of the United States, unlike the current one, insists on self-isolation and strongly opposes the resumption of some businesses.
So this information war is happening in the White House.
It is interesting to note that for several years the United States has been informed of the emergence of a new coronavirus and has been preparing for it.
Perhaps it did - but even when the facts prove true, they are hardly ever recognized by Americans without ambiguity.
The fight is a struggle, but if Barack Obama and his administration funded the creation of COVID-19, this would entail sanctions and demands for reparations from affected countries.
Trump will not let the American people pay for Barack Obama's funding of Wuhan's lab, especially during his presidency.
Although it may give the green light to reports that it was financed by, say, Bill Gates (rumors have long circulated on the Internet, and are confirmed by the fact that a billionaire has invested a lot of money in the vaccine and made it his main business, moving away from other cases).
One thing is clear: the lab that created the coronavirus was.
It was funded, among other things, by the Americans.