Coronavirus 2020.
Who benefits and who created it?
Koronavirus 2020 - who benefited from its creation?
Why China, with its inexorably growing economy, was the first on the "black list."
Who's next?
To trust politicians, as well as tycoons, who create template media is stupid.
For them, people are a resource.
And if they have to put tens or even hundreds of millions of people on the altar in order to achieve any goal, they will not stumble.
No one will argue that many people have doubts or suspicions about this current situation with the Crown.
Even experts disagree about the virus.
Some take the view that it 's just a fake based on normal seasonal flu.
And there 's actually no new combat coronavirus 2020.
And other experts say that it 's a deliberate exaggeration of something real.
Some seasonal flu, that 's a kind of bioweapon.
When someone has worked on coronavirus for a while, it may increase its deadly effects.
But in order to understand what a struggle is really going on behind the coronavirus curtain, you have to take each chain of events apart, and then everything becomes clear.
For example, this is all man-made and coronavirus 2020 is no exception.
Coronavirus 2020.
Why panic?
You 've probably heard on television that they said, "" The peak of coronavirus disease has not yet been reached.
And that's why citizens sit at home. "
How do you know if this peak has passed or not?
Is that what you decide there when the peak of the disease is over?......
Nothing in this world just happens.
It's just that Dad doesn't even kiss Mom.
All the more so in global politics, nothing happens by itself.
Especially when it comes to managing the whole world.
Didn't you notice?
Suddenly, at one point, China has overtaken the US economy.
And Russia has significantly bypassed all countries and has become a military leader - a coronavirus has emerged.
And suddenly, WHO and the UN reached enlightenment, and they became philanthropists.
And then they noticed that people were actually dying.
That they are sick and need to be treated and saved.
Day and night, night and day, their media shows some of the dead and infected....
They demand that all countries close to quarantine for the benefit of humanity.
All of a sudden, we all came together to heal us and save us from death, to save our lives.
After all, according to their written science, we are nothing more than parasites of the planet Earth.
We 're just evolved descendants of monkeys.
They claim that we need to be cut back or we will destroy the planet.
And we 've been taught this pseudoscience for centuries, and now they want to save us all.
At first glance, all of this may seem to be true and of some kind for the sake of humanity, but there is only one "NO..." You don't have to go far and be very wise, you can ask just one small question.
The truth of the answer, which you don 't even have to prove.
Anyone can check it out if they want to.
About 8 million people die every year from cigarettes and alcohol alone.
That 's about 21,000 deaths every day.
But we 've never seen WHO raise panic.
It demanded that the authorities immediately arrest those involved in the production of those drugs.
So why has WHO become so concerned about people now?
Who benefits from coronavirus?
Probable creator.
If America is expelled from the Chinese market, it will no longer be a superpower.
As of 2005, China's economy was less than half that of the United States.
And by 2011, she had already reached 87% of the US economy and started "breathing fire" in her head.
In 2014, China became the largest economy in the world.
I wrote American, though not much, but ahead of schedule.
And experts predicted that by 2024, China would have surpassed US GDP by more than 15%.
Panic has begun in America.
They realized that this trend would not be reversed.
And if you don 't apply the brakes and change the rules of the game, the Chinese giant will eat them with giblets and not even notice.
America began to lose to China, even by the rules that it devised and established itself.
Few people are paying attention to this, but a truly great economic war is taking place right now.
Then decide who will rule the world.
The United States had no choice.
They realized that it was time to clean up biological weapons.
After all, it is no secret that the Pentagon has been creating laboratories for all countries (and the CIS countries are no exception) for a long time.
These laboratories are also conducting research into the creation and development of biological weapons.
Currently, there are over 200 such laboratories worldwide.
US BIOLOGICAL LABORATORIES IN CIS COUNTRIES
Do you think that these military laboratories work for the benefit of humanity?
Coronavirus 2020 and America.
Many of the independent experts already have no doubt that coronavirus 2020 was created in an American laboratory.
And then it 's spread to China specifically to stop its economy.
Biological weapons are a very good move from their point of view.
Because it makes it possible to charge the innocent and condemn them.
Donald Trump's administration is already developing measures against Beijing.
Accusing him of pandemics COVID - 19.
Options under consideration include the imposition of sanctions against China.
The cancellation of US debt to China and the introduction of new trade rules.
If only the US could prove China wrong!
Because China has more evidence.
China is almost 100% convinced that America is to blame.
China has very lucky arguments against the US.
China's Foreign Ministry has therefore already made accusations against the US military.
In Beijing, it was the United States that could bring the coronavirus to Wuhan.
It was here that the World War II Games were held in mid-October 2019.
More than 100 countries participated.
Also from the United States.
The only question now is when "zero" patients have been diagnosed with coronavirus 2020 in the US.
Evidence of an artificial coronavirus.
Coronavirus 2020 is part of the secret war that the United States is...........
Even if you invite bio-engineers, they can tell you how this virus was synthesized.
This is described in more detail in the article: THE CORONAVIRUS WAS TAKEN.
Bill Gates and World Order.
It has long been understood that only one country can do this.
It is not even worth talking about the natural emergence of the virus, as it consists of three parts:
Mouse Coronavirus.
Serpent Coronavirus.
And glycoprotein, which is a component of the Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV).
And in nature, this combination simply couldn 't come about by itself.
This is clearly man-made.
So, too, given the fact that the US refuses to allow international observers in its laboratories.
This only makes the Americans the prime suspects in the creation of the coronavirus....................
The goal of the American elite is clear: to maintain world domination.
Their main targets are China and Russia.
Because it is here that the situation has come out of their control.
On the one hand, threat number one is China.
China is now the world's first economy.
And threat number two is Russia.
Because Russia is the only country that has military parity.
And she's out of their control, too.
Fifteen years ago, American science boasted that it could easily construct viruses of all kinds.
And that includes targeted action.
But whatever the case, the world will not be the same!
If this is self-isolation, then I can go out anytime and go wherever I want.
And if I can be fined for it, it's not self-isolation!
That is a presumptuous explanation!
Let 's call things by their names.
And you can put your unique opinion on this subject in the section for comments without any registration.