CONSPIROLOGY: The world behind the scenes has planned the COVID-19 pandemic to wipe out the population...................
Facebook partnership fake check
The network distributes a video of academician Valentin Katasonov, in which he disseminates myths and fakes from popular conspiracy theories.
The Lie Theory 1.
The pandemic is a special operation of the money-masters, the main shareholders of the US Federal Reserve.
The COVID-19 pandemic was not planned by "the world behind the scenes" or "the owners of money."
Coronavirus is the result of a natural mutation, as shown by scientific research.
There is no evidence that this virus was artificially created in laboratories and spread throughout the planet by the "world government" or within the scope of a special operation.
WHO and most scientists tend to believe that the virus passed to humans from animals.
VoxCheck has already repeatedly refuted fake pandemic planning (here, here and here).
The Federal Reserve serves as the central bank of the United States.
It is not a private shareholder company.
It is a government body governed by a Council of Senior Representatives nominated by the President and approved by the United States Senate.
The claim that the Federal Reserve plans to create a "world government" with a new universe is typical conspiracy theory.
The Lie Theory 2.
The Club of Rome, created by Rockefeller, controls the world's demographic processes and population decline.
The Theory of Conspiracy.
We assume that this is the 1972 report of the Club of Rome "Limiting Growth."
However, the main idea was not to reduce the population but to limit the pace of population growth.
Mathematical calculations by MIT researchers in the book on which the report is based claim that humanity will deplete most of its natural non-renewable resources by 2100 and that overcrowding will worsen the socio-economic conditions of most of the world's population.
The authors of the report pointed to the need for sustainable social development so as not to worsen the ecological basis of human existence on Earth, and said nothing about reducing or destroying people.
We have already refuted the lies about the desire of the "world's billionaires" and the world's backstage to destroy humanity, in particular through vaccines and vaccinations (here and here).
A Lie Theory 3.
Coronavirus has been introduced to provide a total vaccination
As has already been mentioned, coronavirus originated naturally, not as a means of intimidating people.
There is no evidence that vaccination against COVID-19 will be forced.
Lie Theory 4.
The vaccine is a murder weapon.
And the Rockefeller and Gates Foundation 's total immunization organizers
We've already refuted the Rockefeller and Bill Gates fund fakes.
There is no evidence that the COVID-19 pandemic was part of their secret scenario of a new world order.
The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation and the Rockefeller Foundation are two independent organizations.
Sometimes they work together to achieve common goals.
For example, the two organizations have formed an alliance to promote the "Green Revolution" in Africa, to increase the productivity of small farms and to overcome hunger among tens of millions of people.
The vaccine is a means of immunizing the population, that is, preventing a person from dying and preserving life, rather than a "weapon of prolonged murder."
The Bill Gates Foundation, on the other hand, spends money, not money, on charitable aid to international organizations and programs to combat poverty and disease.
It is not reasonable to claim that he makes money by donating money to charity.
The Lie Theory 5.
Bill Gates is sponsoring the development of nanowascins with microchips to then wear electronic eyelashes on people.
There is no evidence that Bill Gates' vaccines have implanted chips in the human body.
Wilbur Chen, an infectious scientist at the Center for Vaccine Development and Global Health at the University of Maryland, notes that even the smallest chips are too big to pass through needle sharps into the human body.
Moreover, there is no evidence or possible explanation of the technology for how a vaccine can establish an "electronic collar" to track people.
VoxCheck has already refuted the fake links between vaccines, chips and the coronavirus pandemic.
Lie Theory 6.
Bill Gates calls electronic collars "digital identification."
This thesis is a popular conspiracy myth about the ID 2020 project.
This project is not related to the coronavirus pandemic or vaccination.
They also never stated that they planned to "chip" the population.
The initiative promotes the idea of the unhindered right of people to an identity card, especially for those who have difficulties with identification, such as refugees, forcibly displaced persons or stateless persons who are denied physical copies of documents.
They are therefore unable to access education, health care or social services.
Another aim is to ensure the right of the individual to present an identity card freely in all circumstances, so that personal data are made available exclusively to the individual and not to States or companies.
The draft electronic certificate will contain information about the person, a digital signature and biometric data (fingerprints).
Microsoft and the Gates Foundation are co-financing this initiative with other companies and foundations.
GAVI (World Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization), which was founded with the help of the Gates Foundation to assist vaccination programmes in developing countries, is also being integrated into the project.
However, the conspiracy theory that the vaccine was intended to be patented under the auspices of the Digital Identification Project is not supported.
We have already refuted the fake link between Bill Gates' vaccines and the ID2020 project (here, here and here).
The Lie 7.
The coronavirus epidemic has spiritual causes, and Dostoevsky predicted it.
This theory is a conspiracy theory whose authors usually seek to see patterns and designs in coincidences.
This is what gives the proponents of spiritualism a false sense of control or understanding of the situation.
It is very doubtful whether Fyodor Dostoevsky predicted the COVID-19 pandemics in his novel Crime and Punishment, published in 1865-1866.
According to literary critics, the dream of an unknown plague moving to Europe from Asia and all dying was used by Dostoevsky as an artistic means of the spiritual rebirth of the hero.
The coronavirus has no spiritual causes, but arose as a result of a natural mutation from the coronavirus family, as has already been mentioned.
The Lie 8.
Coronavirus started during Lent because its organizers - the "owners of money" - are angry.
Coronavirus did not start during the Great Post (this year 2 March - 18 April).
The outbreak began in Wuhan, China in December 2019, hence the name COVID-19, where 19 stands for 2019.
The official WHO Chinese office received a government report of an unknown disease on 31 December 2019.
WHO's COVID-19 global threat was announced on 30 January 2020.
It is therefore incorrect to say that the epidemic coincided with the Great Post.
VoxUkraine is a unique content to read.
Subscribe to our e-mail, read us on Facebook and Twitter, watch current videos on YouTube.
We believe that words have power and ideas have decisive influence.
VoxUkraine brings together the best economists and helps them bring ideas to tens of thousands of compatriots.
VoxUkraine content is free (and always will be free), we do not sell advertising, we do not lobby.
We need smart people and money to do more research, create new influential projects, and publish many quality articles.
There are people!
VoxUkraine.
We'll do more together.
The authors do not work, consult, own shares or receive funding from a company or organization that would benefit from this article, nor are they related in any way to them.