Biolaboratories in Armenia threaten the security of citizens - Armenian expert
The President of the National Front for the Protection of National and Spiritual Values, Alexander Amaryan, called for the closure of biological laboratories opened in Armenia with American support.
He stated this in an interview with Voice of Armenia on 10 April.
Amaryan recalled that there is every reason to believe that the suspicions of the Chinese who accused the United States of developing COVID-19 are well founded.
He noted that many experts already showed that Americans not only developed COVID-19, but also officially patented the new virus in 2015.
In 2015, the American journal Nature published an article about successful experiments in the biological laboratory at Fort Detrick.
In particular, these experiments involved the modification of the coronavirus of the Chinese flying mouse, which could now enter human cells without infecting the animal. "
- Amaran recalled.
He also noted that in August 2019, due to the outbreak of an epidemic in Fort Detrick that claimed the lives of several dozen American soldiers, the biolab was closed.
According to Amaryan, scientists working with the virus officially warned of the deadly danger and unpredictability of further experiments with it.
It is clear that such cases once again raise the question of the danger of the US biolaboratories that have proliferated around the world, which are present in huge numbers both in our region and in Central Asia, etc.
, Amaran stressed.
He noted that only in Kyrgyzstan was society able to close such a laboratory and all the others continued to work.
In this connection, the expert recalled that several biological laboratories were operating in Armenia.
Three are in Yerevan and five are in the regions of Armenia: Tavush, Shirak, Gegarkunik, Shunik and Aramawir.
Recently, Americans have begun to pay particular attention to the Ararat region - perhaps they are preparing to open another laboratory in Artashat.
By the way, it is in the Ararat region that more coronavirus infections are recorded.
What could be an occasion to raise the question of opening a laboratory where it is not yet available, ostensibly for the purpose of research "
The expert stated and called on citizens to draw conclusions.
Amaryan believes that the dangerous activities of biolaboratories operating in the region have already been observed in Armenia.
"And then we wonder why, for example, African swine fever is killing our cattle in the Lori region, and later it turns out that the virus has entered Armenia from the Georgian laboratory.
Yes, and not just in Lori.
Last year, Tavush, Shunik and Shirak were also hit. "
noted the expert.
According to Amaryan, biolaboratories operating in the territory of Armenia pose a threat not only to the economy and agriculture of the country, but also directly to the lives of the people.
The expert believes that it is necessary to close these laboratories.
It is a question of the security of a country small enough that the leakage of any virus poses a very serious threat to the health and life of the population.
, Amaran stressed.
We recall that in August 2010, the Ministry of Emergency Situations of Armenia, with the approval of the Government, concluded an agreement "On cooperation in the field of prevention of proliferation of technologies of production, pathogens and testing of biological weapons" with the United States Department of Defense.