Duration of COVID-19 immunity
Human immunity is the ability of an organism to maintain its integrity and biological identity by identifying and removing foreign substances and cells (including pathogenic bacteria and viruses).
There is a distinction between innate and acquired immunity.
Inherited immunity is the ability of an organism to recognize and render harmless various bacteria and viruses according to common characteristics.
Such immunity becomes effective immediately and fights various pathogens.
In the case of SARS-CoV-2 and other viruses, innate immunity is represented by interferon and other cytokines that can kill cells containing the virus.
Acquired (adaptive) immunity is formed after contact with the pathogen, so it takes time to form, but it acts directly on the pathogen and neutralizes it.
An adaptive immune system creates a "memory" of a bacterium or virus and reacts immediately when it is encountered again.
Adaptive active immunity occurs after the disease has passed or after the introduction of the vaccine.
Adaptive passive immunity occurs when antibodies are injected into the body in the form of serum or delivered to the newborn with the mother's milk or in the womb.
The adaptive immune response is unique to each virus and bacterium and consists of two types of leukocytes: B-lymphocytes and T-lymphocytes.
B-lymphocytes form the humoral immune response by synthesizing specific antibodies.
For SARS-CoV-2, these are immunoglobulins of classes A, M, G.
The time of onset of antibody synthesis varies from 7 to 14 days.
T lymphocytes form the cellular immune response.
These include T helper cells (Th1, Th2, Treg, Th9, Th17, Th22,), cytotoxic T lymphocytes and NKs (natural killer cells).
T lymphocytes mature in thymus and can stimulate various reactions and long-term memory.
Humoral immunity after transmission of SARS-CoV-2 infection, as well as after SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV infections, is very unstable, and is characterized by low antibody production and rapid disappearance from the bloodstream, and sometimes initial total absence.
According to a study of PMID 32555424, the number of antibodies in asymptomatic and mild-to-moderate patients decreased rapidly.
People with severe disease developed more antibodies.
According to another study, PMID 32764200, an increased immune response was observed in males, the elderly, and those hospitalized in a hospital.
Studies show that not all people with COVID-19 disease can detect protective antibodies.
Of the 126 plasma samples that passed, only 101 (80%) had neutralizing antibody titres (nAb), and the remaining 20% had no titres (PMID 32764200).
However, this does not mean that immunity has not been established.
Even in the absence of antibodies after the disease is transmitted, a T-cell immune response is formed.
German studies show that most patients after COVID-19 develop a T-cell reaction even if they do not produce antibodies (12% did not produce).
In addition, about 80% of the control group (patients without COVID-19) had T-cells from previous coronavirus exposure that cross-reacted to SARS-CoV-2 (cross reactivity).
Of course, cross-immunity cannot provide full protection, but it can reduce the symptoms of the disease.
The T-cell response is very important for immunity to SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV, with antibodies rapidly disappearing for both viruses (PMID 27840203).
Respiratory diseases often do not provide sterilizing immunity, so those who are infected may be reinfected.
Therefore, many experts believe that COVID-19 immunity is unlikely to last for a lifetime, but it is not clear how long it will remain protected.
Numerous studies are currently under way.
For example, the Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory published an article on the duration of immunity of COVID-19 patients.
Blood samples were tested on 188 individuals 6 months after the onset of coronavirus, of which 43 individuals had been exposed to COVID-19 for more than 6 months.
Scientists concluded that immunity lasted for at least 6 months: IgG to Spike was relatively stable for 6 + months (up to 8 months after infection).
SARS-CoV-2-specific CD4 + T cells and CD8 + T cells decreased with half-lives of 3-5 months.
By studying antibodies, B-memory cells, CD4 + T cells, and CD8 + T cell memory on SARS-CoV-2 in an integrated manner, researchers concluded that there is a significant difference in the kinetics of each component of SARS-CoV-2 immune memory.
(https: / / doi.org / 10.1101 / 2020.11.15.383323)
Doctor Kuznetsova Tatyana Alexandrovna and White Product Team wish you well!
Back to Section