Coronavirus in pets: species, symptoms, treatment, analyses
The COVID-19 pandemic has recently become one of the most exciting and discussed topics.
Pet owners are interested in whether there are cases of COVID-19 infection in cats and dogs, how the disease occurs in animals and what to do if the pet is sick.
Is it true that bats are the source of the coronavirus?
The current coronavirus epidemic is not the first in decades.
Several varieties of this infection are known to science, some of them (229E, NL43, HKU1, OC43) are already considered common and have been identified not only in humans but also in animals.
They are easily transmitted by the body in the form of respiratory disease.
Drugs have been developed against these ARVs.
Some species of coronavirus that have appeared in the last twenty years are believed to be of bat origin.
For example, the SARS-CoV virus that triggered the SARS outbreak in 2002 was detected in bats, but is believed to have been transmitted to humans from palm cysts.
Coronavirus MERS-CoV (
Middle Eastr exhaled
syndrom
), registered in Saudi Arabia in 2012, was transmitted to humans via a camel, but bats are also considered a reservoir of the virus.
Where did the coronavirus (COVID-19) come from?
Coronavirus infection 2019-nCoV is considered to be another variant of the virus, which is a natural reservoir of bats.
However, scientists have not yet been able to determine exactly how the first human infection occurred.
There are several possible ways of contracting a new infection.
Direct transmission is considered.
It is easy to buy not only roasted but also raw bat carcasses in Chinese markets.
The first case of COVID-19 infection was recorded in the Chinese province.
Coronavirus in animals: who is sick and why?
As mentioned earlier, scientists around the world have for many years been confronted with diseases caused by coronavirus (the family includes 40 RNA viruses).
Because the species are subfamilies, there is no need to fear coronavirus, which affects animals.
Dogs and cats are classified as alpha viruses.
However, studies by microbiologists show that the dog does not have "cat" coronavirus and vice versa.
Animals with reduced immunity, puppies and cats are most susceptible to infection.
What's different about cat coronavirus?
Cats can be infected with the virus in two forms: coronavirus enteritis and infectious peritonitis.
Infection peritonitis is a mutation of coronavirus enteritis.
Infectious feline peritonitis can cause serious consequences, even death.
Homeless animals and pet owners are most likely to be infected with coronavirus, as the virus is transmitted via the fecal-oral route with dull contents or frequent contact with different cats.
Pets can "catch" the virus during walks.
Intestinal coronavirus enteritis is almost safe for healthy adult cats.
There may be mild gastrointestinal disorders.
In most cases, the virus is released or becomes asymptomatic.
But if there 's a lot of cats and cats at home, and they' re constantly infecting each other, the risk of mutation of the virus into infectious peritonitis increases dramatically.
Coronavirus infection peritonitis is characterized by the failure of almost all organ systems.
Symptoms include fever, severe weight loss, fatigue, fluid accumulation in the abdominal cavity, and anaemia.
It is very difficult to confirm the diagnosis, you need a full examination of the animal - ultrasound of the abdominal organs, extended blood tests, analysis of the fluid from the abdomen, sometimes even biopsy of the modified organs.
Coronavirus in dogs: diagnosis, treatment and prevention.
Coronavirus infection in dogs is divided into two types: intestinal and respiratory.
The first type of virus is dangerous because it destroys intestinal cells and blood vessels and is transmitted when in contact with the host of the infection (in joint play, sniffing).
Respiratory coronavirus in dogs is similar to colds in humans, transmitted only by air-droplet, most often in nurseries.
Timely medical attention allows the animal to be treated quickly and completely.
Unfortunately, dog owners rarely pay attention to the first symptoms (loss of appetite, lethargy).
Veterinary doctors are often consulted with such symptoms as vomiting, dehydration, bloody diarrhoea.
This indicates that the pet is already in serious condition.
It is often diagnosed with parvovirus.
In such cases, the main pathogen (the "culprit" of the disease) is parvovirus, as it is much more dangerous and can even cause death.
Intestinal coronavirus is often found in clinically healthy dogs.
Animal studies on coronavirus in Moscow.
There is no specific treatment for coronavirus in dogs and cats.
Blood tests, ultrasound, and rapid tests are available to detect the virus.
Animal testing in Moscow can be done at our veterinary center.
On the basis of the analyses, the doctor prescribes symptomatic treatment and medications for general strengthening of the body, and sends them to the hospital if necessary.
In most cases, when treated in a timely manner, these measures lead to an early recovery of the pet.
Is coronavirus transmitted from dogs and cats to humans?
"Dog" and "Cat" coronavirus are safe for humans.
No human infection of FCOV or CCoV has been recorded. COVID 19 belongs to the subfamily of beta coronaviruses.
And it 's different in structure from coronavirus dogs or cats.
Despite the safety of alpha coronaviruses for humans, do not forget hygiene when your pet is sick.
Wash hands thoroughly with soap after contact with the animal, do wet cleaning, isolate the sick animal.
Do not forget that there is a risk of infection of other dogs and cats and spread of the virus on clothes and shoes.
According to the World Health Organization, there is no evidence that domestic cats and dogs may be infected with the new type of coronavirus infection 2019-nCoV.
Prevention of coronavirus in domestic animals.
Be careful with your pets while walking, try to limit dogs' contact with unfamiliar animals and their feces.
Observe hygiene rules..................
After walking, wash your pet's feet carefully.
Don't forget to vaccinate your pet.
Although there is currently no vaccine for coronavirus, there are more serious diseases such as parvovirus enteritis of dogs, cat panleucosis, carnivore plague and rabies.
Love your pets and in the first cases of any disease, contact a veterinary doctor!
Is the coronavirus of pets transmitted to human beings?
Although coronaviruses belong to the same family, they differ in microscopic level.
It is these differences that prevent the human virus from living and reproducing in domestic animals.
The same is true of the coronavirus strain in domestic pets: microscopic changes make it impossible for the virus to exist in humans.
Animal advocates and doctors around the world urge pet owners not to give in to panic or believe rumors....
Such calls came after people in France, because of the spread of false information, started throwing pets in the streets, giving them to shelters, and even putting them to sleep.
Can domestic animals get COVID-19 coronavirus?
According to the data of the Ministry of Social Affairs, no cases of human transmission of COVID-19 from domestic animals have been recorded, nor have dogs and cats been infected with a new type of infection.
A Hong Kong dog that tested positive for COVID19 is not evidence of the possibility of infecting domestic animals.
According to scientists, the dog was in contact with an infected person and the virus hit her in the mucosa.
Because the virus is able to live on surfaces for a long time, the first test was positive.
Further research has shown that the dog did not suffer from new coronavirus.