Will they really put Fawcett and Bill Gates in for inoculations?
On July 22, the News Front published an article titled "Trials began against Fawcett and Gates, along with the Obama Foundation, in connection with the artificial creation and spread of the virus."
The article stated that lawsuits had begun against Anthony Fawcett and Bill Gates, the directors of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, and the Obama Foundation.
Anthony Fauci has been a leading member of the United States Coronavirus Task Force since January 2020.
According to the News Front, they will be charged with the onset of disability and the killing of hundreds of thousands of children through vaccination, as well as the artificial creation and spread of the virus.................
And Obama will be judged for funding the Wuhan Laboratory for $3.7 million.
The text is accompanied by a photo and a YouTube link under the heading: EXCLUSIVE Drs Buttar, Shiva Mikovits BLAST Gates, Call to ARREST Fauci as Crisis CRUSHES Economy, but the video.
This News Front article is a lie.
In the United States, no trials were started against Dr. Fawcett and Bill Gates.
In fact, the News Front article is based on the story of the Special Report on The Next News Network, in which three medical and scientific representatives, Rasheed Butar, Shiva Ayadurai and Judy Maikovitz, demanded the arrest of Fawcett for causing significant damage to the US economy, and accused Bill Gates of planning to use vaccines for the vaccination and attempting to establish total control.
It should be noted that this story is no longer available on the official Special Report channel of The Next News Network.
The video is only uploaded by individual users and is dated April 30, May 1 and May 2.
The charges against Bill Gates for chipping and testing children are not new and are not true.
The "Myths Detector" has also produced material on this.
There is a conspiracy theory that Bill Gates intends to use coronavirus vaccination to inject microchips into people, which is aimed at full control.
However, this is not true.
This conspiracy theory arose after Bill Gates eventually predicted the existence of "digital certificates," which, according to Reuters, the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation suggests an open platform that aims to expand access to information.
Bill Gates didn 't mention microchip implants to people.
It is also false to say that Bill Gates is being tried for child trials and crimes against humanity.
The Reuters fact-finding team also wrote that such charges against Anthony Fawcett and Bill Gates were false.
With regard to the $3.7 million funding provided by the Obama Administration to the Wuhan Laboratory, the Snopes fact-checking platform article states that this is partly a lie.
In particular, it is true that part of US $3.7 million in 2014-2019 was transferred from the National Institute of Health to the Eco Health Alliance, a global non-profit environmental organization that funded research by the Wuhan Institute of Virology.
But it is a mistake that US $3.7 million was spent entirely on the Wuhan Laboratory, and that the Obama Administration did not fully fund it.
Approximately $700,000 of this $3.7 million was approved under the Donald Trump administration.