Harm and relief: pangolins and other animals in the history of the epidemic
Flying mice may be able to tell a lot about the origin of the new coronavirus.
Other animals can help find the secret of healing from aggression.
Lamas have been found to possess rare antibodies that can help scientists create immunity to coronavirus.
Kinologists work with dogs that can "suck" COVID-19 even before a person has symptoms of the disease.
And the minks, for unknown reasons, proved extremely dangerous in a pandemic.
These and other creatures can infect us, they can warn us, they can infect us themselves, they can influence the global fight against SARS-CoV-2.
ORIGIN
Flying mice
Bats
Studies of bats have been active since SARS (Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, also known as SARS).
The SARS outbreak occurred in 2002-2003.
There are about 1,400 species of bats in the world.
These are the only mammals that can fly.
And surprisingly, they are not susceptible to any viral disease other than rabies.
This makes them particularly dangerous vectors of such pathogens.
The COVID-19 pandemic, however, has caused scientists to look at the subterranean bats (Rhinolophus) with new eyes.
It is the South China blacksmiths that may have caused both SARS and a new coronavirus.
Initially, Chinese scientists reported that it was likely that the coronavirus had "jumped" from a submersible bat to another animal, and from it to a human.
But what actually happened before doctors learned of the new coronavirus at the end of last year is still unclear.
Most scientists agree that it is not of artificial origin, but it is unclear from where it moved to humans - whether it happened in the market or in the Uhan virus lab - so far.
Pangolins
A butcher in China prepares to kill pangolin, valued in folk medicine
One of the candidates for the role of the animal from which the new coronavirus came to man was a pangolin, similar to a beast armadillo inscribed in the Red Book.
In February, at the height of the outbreak in China, scientists at Guangzhou Agricultural University announced at a press conference that pangolins from a detained smuggling party had been found to have coronaviruses that were 99% genetically identical to human SARS-CoV-2.
It turned out, however, that because of the confusion in the communications of several scientific groups, the press conference gave the wrong data: 99% of the incomplete genomes of human and pangolin coronaviruses coincide, but only certain areas of them - the so-called receptor-binding domains that are responsible for attaching the virus to cells.
The full genomes match only 90.3%, which is probably not enough to consider pangolins as a source of infection.
Pangolins are now considered to be a possible reservoir of the virus and a source of transmission of the disease, but scientists have not advanced research to the point where they claim that Pangolins were the transmitters of the virus.
Pangolins are native to Southeast Asia and Africa.
Trade in their meat and shell is internationally prohibited.
But in China, it is sometimes overlooked.
It was suspected that this was why the Wuhan authorities concealed that the transmitter was Pangolin.
Otherwise, it would have to be admitted that pangolins were traded in the very market from which the COVID-19 epidemic supposedly originated.
Civettes
Zivets are being removed from the market in Guangzhou.
This is 2004, the end of the SARS epidemic.
Cyvettes gained a reputation as potential vectors of viruses to humans during the SARS epidemic in 2002-2003.
It was at this time that they were thought to be vectors of coronavirus from bats to humans.
These nocturnal forest predators often enter markets in China because their meat is considered a delicacy.
It is they who, scientists suggest, became the vectors of SARS from bats to humans in 2002 in the same province of Yunnan as Wuhan.
This may have happened in the same wild animal market.
This assumption is based on the fact that some palm civets are carriers of coronavirus, almost identical to SARS, which reached almost 8,000 people at the peak of the epidemic in 2003.
However, no definitive conclusion has been reached on the origin of SARS.
NEW APPROPRIATIONS
The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) states that "although there is currently insufficient scientific evidence, the risk of COVID-19 transmission from animal to human is considered low."
Indeed, it is impossible to verify this possibility reliably while remaining within the framework of scientific ethics.
But individual animals - cats, bats, ferrets, and hamsters - were infected with coronavirus during the experiments and demonstrated the ability to pass it on to their relatives.
And one animal seems to have transmitted the virus to the human.
Norky
The bodies of infected minks are removed from farms in the Netherlands, 9 June 2020
The transmission of coronavirus from a burrow to a human is the only confirmed case of human infection from animals since the outbreak at the end of last year.
At least two people contracted COVID-19 from these animals on a mink farm in the Netherlands after the mink itself received the virus from humans around the end of April this year.
Farmers in the Netherlands are now picking out tens of thousands of minks, despite assurances that the virus is not transmitted from animals to humans by the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the World Health Organization (WHO).
The Dutch authorities are also investigating whether domestic cats could carry the disease between different mink farms.
"To date, 12 of the nearly 130 Dutch Nordic farms have been affected by the disease," wrote Science magazine on 9 June, after the mass killing of minks began in the Netherlands.
- Once COVID-19 hits the farm, the virus starts spreading like a fire, even if the animals are in separate cells. "
NEW NEWS
Meanwhile, SARS-CoV-2 and its close coronaviruses can carry other animals unnoticed by humans.
In addition to malleable bats, laboratory studies have shown that macaques, dogs, cats, large cats, rabbits, hamsters, ferrets and monkeys were infected.
"As the coronavirus spreads around the world outside China, it can find completely new carriers," said virologist Ralph Barik of the University of North Carolina to National Geographic magazine.
Cats
Volunteers help homeless cats in Istanbul during the epidemic
From the experience of previous epidemics of various coronaviruses, scientists knew that cats, like other domestic animals, could become infected, but infectious disease specialists believe that the risk of humans in turn becoming infected with COVID-19 from domestic animals is low.
Cats and other pets, of course, can carry the virus on the wool - if, for example, it is eaten by a person with COVID-19.
But it is still not proven that a person can get infected by touching an animal that has been infected with the virus.
It is still not known how many viral particles must be ingested in order for a person to become infected.
In March, veterinarians in Belgium confirmed the first case of human infection of a domestic cat.
The cat showed symptoms of coronavirus infection about a week after its host became ill.
This was manifested in diarrhoea, vomiting and respiratory problems.
The animal was cured two weeks later.
Similar cases were soon reported in Hong Kong and later in other countries.
In Russia, the first infection of the cat was discovered in May.
A five-year-old domestic animal in Moscow was examined for nose and throat swabs and found SARS-CoV-2.
The World Health Organization states that cats and ferrets can distribute COVID-19, but only to their relatives.
There is still no evidence that the virus can pass from these domestic pets to humans.
However, WHO recommends that patients with coronavirus infection refrain from communicating with pets.
Big cats
Tiger Nadia at the Bronx Zoo.
One of the tigers infected with COVID-19
In April, tigers fell ill at the Bronx Zoo in New York City.
It was soon revealed that COVID-19 had captured three lions.
Most likely, the virus was transmitted to them by zoo staff.
Since no one knew that tigers could be infected with COVID-19, tests for coronavirus infection in animals were only done when they were on the verge of death.
The decision to test tigers and lions for coronavirus caused mixed reactions.
In April, there was a shortage of tests on COVID-19 in New York and for people.
"It is important that people working for human health and people working for animal health exchange information," said the director of one of the units of the National Centre for New Zoological Diseases.
Dogs
Spices are very popular in Asia
In February, a 17-year-old sphincter contracted coronavirus infection in Hong Kong.
It belonged to a woman who had a disease.
Five consecutive tests from the animal yielded a "weak-positive" result.
At the same time, the dog did not have antibodies in its blood - that is, it did not develop immunity to the new infection...............
Spitz died on 16 March, a few days after returning home from quarantine.
The owner did not allow the dog to be autopsied, so the exact cause of the dog's death is unknown.
Camels
In the market in Egypt
Camels are known to be the source and carrier of MERS (Middle East Respiratory Syndrome), which has killed 866 people since its discovery in 2012.
The spread of MERS among people continues and now - several hundred people get it every year, mostly in the Arabian Peninsula.
Most of the patients were infected by camels or by eating camel meat.
Camels are believed to have contracted MERS from the Egyptian tomb warbler, a small bat that lives in the Middle East, Africa, and Pakistan.
But how the MERS virus spread from bats to camels is still unknown.
No cases of new coronavirus infection have yet been reported in camels.
PUTTING AND PUTTING
Lamas
These llamas in Argentina already have immunity to SARS-CoV-2.
A Belgian lama called Winter can help prevent coronavirus and even treat COVID-19.
Even earlier, antibodies that produce lamas have been found to be very effective against SARS, MERS and even AIDS and influenza.
In May, scientists from the United States and Belgium decided to use this knowledge to combat COVID-19.
The llamas have two types of antibodies against viruses.
The antibodies of one of them - called nanotells - are much smaller than the antibodies in the human body.
They are able to bind to a spindle protein, the S-protein, through which the coronavirus "sticks" to the cell, and neutralize it.
"It's one of the first known antibodies that can neutralize coronavirus," says Jason McLellan, a professor of microbiology at the University of Austin, Texas, author of a study on the unusual immunity of llamas.
The National Health Institute of the United States and many other research centers believe that these studies can be promising.
Cervi
Marine sandeel
French doctors are investigating the blood of marine porpoises - a species of worm - in an attempt to save the lives of critically ill patients with COVID-19.
Two hospitals in France have been approved for clinical trials.
It is believed that the injection of sand worm blood may increase the oxygen content of human blood.
The blood of a sandworm has a special substance that allows it to spend long periods without breathing.
Researchers stress that this is "an unusual method that is at an early stage of testing."
So far only the first studies have been carried out - their task was to verify the safety of the method.
LABORATORY LIVING
Virtually all drugs are tested on animals before they are tested on humans.
Such laboratory research is now particularly valuable, as the world is racing to develop a vaccine against COVID-19.
These animals are often forgotten, little written about, they are unknown heroes of scientific discovery.
Mice
Moderna's experiments on mice and humans in the United States are constantly on the top of the news on the COVID-19 vaccine.
Mice have long been the main experimental animals, largely because they are easy to breed and cheap to maintain.
Research on mice has given scientists an idea of how coronavirus affects the human nervous system, how it spreads across the body and which organs it affects, and how the pathogen affects the human population as a whole.
Monkeys and gulls
Hornets and monkeys are also frequently used in laboratory experiments, and have already played a role in the development of a promising vaccine against COVID-19.
DISEASE
Dogs
Dogs and cats can detect some diseases in humans through their sense of smell - possibly including COVID-19.
Such live coronavirus detectors are already being prepared in the United Kingdom, Germany, Finland and France.