Where did the coronavirus go?
Do you have to wear masks?
Many Russian cities, including Moscow, are gradually removing restrictions imposed by coronavirus.
International borders are being opened and air traffic is being restored.
And the threat of a pandemic seems less and less real.
As a result, many are quick to return to their normal way of life: actively planning travel, neglecting social distance, and abandoning personal protective equipment.
But how justified is such a rush?
Could the virus simply "evaporate"?
We understand together with the leading expert of the Centre for Molecular Diagnostics of the Central Research Institute of Epidemiology Rosconsumption Surveillance, partner of the International Festival of ZOG and Sports SN PRO EPXO FORUM Mikhail Lebedev.
Coronavirus gone?
Some saw the partial lifting of restrictions as a call for active social life: supposedly, COVID-19 is no longer dangerous, and life will immediately return to normal.
But this approach is strange, at least.
The virus has not disappeared and is still circulating.
As the expert notes, this is also evident from the daily statistics.
Mikhail: Now we have a fairly stable picture, but at the same time, every day, new infections.
On average, more than 5,000 new cases are detected every day in Russia and more than 600 in Moscow.
It 's precisely these numbers that don' t make it possible to say that the virus has gone anywhere, even if we want to.
Nevertheless, the circulation of the coronavirus has decreased markedly, the expert acknowledges.
By comparison, at the height of the pandemic, about 20% of the smear tests tested were positive.
At present, according to the epidemiologist, their number does not exceed 1%.
This trend can be described as positive, but it does not mean that the virus has truly disappeared, and the pandemic no longer threatens the world.
Accordingly, there is no need to relax.
Masks can't be worn?
According to the doctor, the main task for today is to minimize the circulation of the coronavirus.
Therefore, maintaining social distance and personal protective equipment are still necessary.
To be more effective, medical masks or respirators must be worn by the vast majority.
This is especially important where it is difficult to distance - in public transport, shops and during public events.
Michael: Wear them on the street (masks - Prim.
)
You don 't have to, because the virus doesn' t fly through the air, it 's transmitted through the air and through the surface.
Also do not forget to wash your hands regularly and thoroughly with soap and disinfectants.
As the doctor notes, the virus will only truly disappear if we all comply with the necessary protection measures.
Are they fined for violating the massage regime?
Although restrictions have been relaxed in Russia, as in some other countries, sanctions for violation of the massage regime still exist.
Tourists should pay particular attention to this - although many countries have opened borders for travellers, epidemiological precautions are equally necessary.
The following are a few countries where fines for lack of medical masks continue to apply:
Russia: 3000 to 5000 rubles.
Turkey: 900 Turkish lire (9095 roubles).
Germany: from €15 (1300 rubles) to €500 (43,450 rubles).
UK: £100 (9614 rubles).
France: €150 (13 034 rubles).
Italy: up to €1000 (86,899 rubles).
US $300 (22,113 rubles) to $500 (36,856 rubles).