Americans or mice: where the Chinese coronavirus came from
"Americans created a deadly coronavirus five years ago," with such bold headlines in the last few days, various media outlets have published a 2015 article in Nature.
Gazeta.Ru discussed what the article really was about and how it is related to the current coronavirus pandemic.
Following the SARS and Middle East respiratory syndrome epidemics, many scientists were concerned about the possibility of interspecific transmission of SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV, which also affected bats and other animals.
The possibility of mutating and infecting humans with animal-dangerous infections posed a serious threat.
Researchers at the University of North Carolina in the United States have drawn attention to SHC014-CoV, a SARS-like coronavirus that infects bats.
A study by Chinese experts showed that the virus originated from the recombination of lines that also led to SARS-CoV.
In 2015, scientists together with colleagues from the Uhanj Institute of Virology created a "chimeric" virus based on the surface protein SHC014 and the SARS virus.
The study showed that SHC014 already has all the necessary tools to bind to the core receptor of human cells.
The experiment confirmed the hypothesis of direct human infection with coronavirus bats.
The new virus could infect the epithelium of the human respiratory tract, lung and uterine cancer cells, as well as the epithelium of the kidney of rodents.
In mice, the virus caused pneumonia, which also resulted in loss of up to 10% of body weight.
Death was rarely observed in old mice (from 12 months).
No new drugs were found to be effective against the virus..........................
In 2018, a vaccine was found that could neutralize it.
"Our approach shows how to use metagenomics data to predict the emergence of viruses and apply this knowledge in preparation for the treatment of future emerging viral infections," wrote the authors.
They also warned of the danger of transmitting SHC014-CoV to humans in case of possible mutations.
Such experiments have caused discontent among the scientific community.
In November 2015, Nature published an article criticizing the work.
The author also expressed concerns about what would happen if the experimental virus were to leak out of the laboratory, since SHC014-CoV was only a theoretical hazard and its chimeric sister already existed in reality.
In 2016, Vincent Racaniello, a professor at Columbia University's Department of Microbiology and Immunology, responded to such claims by writing an article in PNAS magazine on the latest research on viruses that can lead to epidemics.
"Critics of experiments with artificial enhancement of the function of viruses often cite apocalyptic scenarios involving the release of modified viruses and subsequent catastrophic effects on humans," he stressed.
- Such statements, however, are private opinions that are only intended to frighten the public and encourage us to regulate unnecessarily.
Virologists have manipulated viruses for years, and no modified virus has caused an epidemic among humans. "
From this data, a number of media outlets, including Russian, concluded that COVID-19 was allegedly created by Chinese scientists in cooperation with the American army.
Cospirological ideas became very popular among social media users and later journalists, and Nature editors even had to write an epigraph for a critical experiment.
We know that this story is being used as the basis for unverified theories that the coronavirus leading to COVID-19 was artificially created.
There is no evidence that this is true; scientists believe that the most likely source of the coronavirus was an animal, "they stressed.
In February 2020, a team of scientists from the University of Ohio, the University of Pennsylvania, and the University of North Carolina published an article refuting the connection between SHC014-MA15 and SARS-CoV-2 coronaviruses.
According to Chinese scientists, SHC014-MA15 differs from SARS-CoV-2 by more than 6,000 nucleotides.
The full genetic code SHC014-MA15, however, has not yet been published.