Investigation: How Covid-19 could have escaped the world from a biolab in Wuhan
Illustration: scientificamerican.com.
The American press is actively discussing the possibility that the Covid-19 pandemic may have been caused by a virus leak from a biolab in Wuhan................
It is believed that one of the staff members was infected by it during a fly-by-mouse study, after which he infected others with the virus.
The official representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of China, Zhao Lixidenied.
EADaily checked where the version's legs were growing from, and whether this was possible.
Why is the bat considered the source of the new coronavirus?
There is no evidence that all 100% of the new coronavirus is derived from bats.
According to a joint mission of the World Health Organization and China, coronavirus strains in the subterranean bat Rhinolophus sinicus are at most the same as SARS-Cov-2, which causes the new coronavirus infection Covid-19.
According to WHO, BatCov RaTG13 has a 96% match.
This is confirmed by the scientific paper "The outbreak of pneumonia is associated with a new coronavirus that originated in bats."
It was published in the scientific journal The Nature in early February by staff of the Key Laboratory for Special Pathogens and Biosafety of the Wuhan Institute of Virology.
89% matched the new virus strain of the bat coronavirus BatCov ZC45.
In late March, scientists from the University of Yunnan's bioresource conservation and management laboratories published a paper in CellPress that reported that they had found genomic and evolutionary evidence of SARS-CoV-2 in dead Malay pangolins.
The genome is 91% identical, and S1 is more closely related to SARS-CoV-2 than to RaTG13.
"In summary, this study suggests that pangolins are a natural source of SARS-CoV-2 coronaviruses," says the scientific paper.
In 2013, bats were diagnosed with Bat SL-CoV-WIV1, which is 99.9% the same as SARS-Cov, which occurred in China in 2002-2003.
In January, scientists at several Chinese universities suggested that a new coronavirus could also occur from snakes, but this idea was rejected at the University of Michigan.
They analyzed the structure of RNA sites of unknown origin in the coronavirus genome 2019-nCoV and found no evidence that they were related to HIV or snake viruses.
We have examined two recent reports on which intermediate species of animals may have carried coronavirus prior to human exposure, and how the virus may have been inserted into the shell protein of unknown origin.
Both hypotheses have not been confirmed, "the study says.
Why can 't the market in Wuhan be the starting point for the spread of the virus?
The World Health Organization (WHO) has not identified the Wuhan seafood market as the exact place where the new coronavirus began to spread.
The organization merely pointed out that there are three areas in China that are being studied by the country 's authorities and scientists.
"They are determined on the basis of the first cases of disease in Wuhan during December 2019: wholesale market of seafood and other markets in the area, wild animals sold on the market and their place of delivery after the market was closed," says WHO.
The scientific paper "New coronavirus Associated with Human Respiratory Disease in China" explains in more detail why the ear market may or may not be a source of the virus.
The study was sent to the Researchgate on January 7 by Chinese scientists, including representatives of the Department of Pulmonology and Resuscitation of the Wuhan Central Hospital and the Wuhan Centre for Disease Prevention and Control.
They reported that they had studied a 41-year-old resident of the mega-city who had been taken to hospital on 26 December, six days after the onset of illness.
It turns out he was working in the seafood market.
Experts determined that, in addition to seafood, the market also traded live eels, badgers, snakes and pigeons, as well as their bones and meat.
"There were no bats for sale," noted scientists.
The patient himself said that he had no contact with the bird.
Based on an outbreak of SARS or, for example, swine flu, scientists have found that there are intermediaries between humans and flying mice for the transmission of coronavirus.
In the case of SARS-Cov, cysts have long been thought to be the source of the SARS virus.
No such intermediaries have been found in the case of the market in Wuhan.
However, as early as 2015, scientists from the Key Laboratory for Special Pathogens and Biosafety of the Wuhan Institute of Virology found that coronaviruses can be transmitted directly from bats to humans.
And at least they fed the coronaviruses themselves in two laboratories in Wuhan.
For example, the closest SARS-CoV-2 strain of the coronavirus BatCov RaTG13 has been there since 2013.
Image: ncbi.nlm.nih.gov.
However, the laboratories themselves are not far from the seafood market.
The Centre for Disease Prevention and Control is 4 km away and the Institute of Virology 12 km away.
These facts have already given rise to speculation that the outbreak of a new coronavirus did not begin exactly as Beijing interpreted it.
Does China resent exactly what the US says?
On 16 April, Chinese Foreign Ministry official Zhao Lixian stated, citing the World Health Organization (WHO), that there is no evidence of laboratory origin of the virus.
As stated in the Chinese FDA, many medical experts have confirmed that the claim that the virus was leaked from the Wuhan laboratory "has no scientific basis."
In the United States, however, there is quite a different story.
Foxnews reported that the virus could have been transmitted directly from bats to humans.
Whether this meant experiments in Wuhan on live flying mice or contamination of the virus itself stored in laboratories, the channel did not specify.
Did they keep bats in Wuhan's labs?
The fact that bats were kept at the Wuhan Institute of Virology and the Centre for Disease Prevention and Control was written by Professor Botao Xiao of the South China University of Technology.
Together with Lei Xiao of Tian Yu Hospital of Wuhan University of Science and Technology, he published a paper "Possible Origin 2019-nCoV" in February.
In it, researchers cited as evidence the 2013 study "Phylogeny and origin of hantaviruses that carry bats, insectivores and rodents."
Indeed, the document states that in 2011, scientists captured 450 bats of eight varieties in the cities of Lunyuan, Wenzhou and Zhejiang Province.
In 2012, there were 155 bats in Hubei Province, where Wuhan is located.
However, where they were studied can only be guessed.
The bats have been caught by fog nets and harp traps in caves of natural habitat.
According to the protocol described earlier, insectivorous animals were placed in cells with dried food.
All the animals survived the capture.
Prior to surgery, everyone was admitted to an anaesthesia to reduce suffering.
Bats and insectivores collected samples of heart, liver, kidneys, lungs, spleen and brains for the detection of hantavirus, "the paper says.
Testing at the Huan laboratories can be expected through participation in the study by Jun-hua Tian of the Centre for Disease Prevention and Control in Huan.
According to Researchgate, he is the co-author of 38 scientific publications, including one of the first on the new coronavirus - "New coronavirus associated with human respiratory disease in China."
The red indicates the places where bats were hunted.
Image: journals.plos.org.
Nothing is known about the presence of live bats in the Ochny laboratories.
It is known, however, that the specialists of the Institute of Virology did indeed actively hunt bats themselves and take analyses from them in southern China.
For example, from April 2011 to October 2015, they took 602 smears and faeces samples from bats that were found in Shitou Cave in Kunming, Yunnan province.
At that time, specialists discovered 11 new dangerous coronaviruses and noticed that the viruses are constantly recombining.
Scientists wrote that they had caught bats and, after swallowing, released them according to all the rules.
Thus, there may be no living bats in the ear laboratories.
And the employee 's version of the infection can be based on whether they got infected while working with bat tissue or isolated viruses, or whether the infection actually got in contact with animals in their habitat and was brought to Wuhan.
Was it possible for the Uthans to become infected while hunting bats?
Shi Zhenli is a professor and director of the Center for Emerging Infectious Diseases Research at the Virology Institute in Wuhan.
Other colleagues call her "Batwoman" because she has spent more than 16 years on bat expeditions.
In March, Scientific American published an essay on her.
Shi Zhenli reported that during research in 2011-2015, hundreds of coronaviruses were found in bats captured from Kunming Cave in Yunnan Province.
Some of them were fatal to humans.
And being so close to the coronaviruses, you don 't have to be a wildlife trader to get infected, she noticed about the locals and the workers of one of the mines next to the cave.
It was at that time that the Uthanian scientists proved that coronavirus could be transmitted to humans directly from bats.
On their own safety in scientific work, Chinese researchers write that the entire field team wears personal protective equipment, including N95 respirators, durable gloves, protective glasses, and disposable overalls.
The publication Scientific American on Shi Zhenli, however, has a photograph of her releasing a fruit bat and no protection at all.
The painting, however, dates back to 2004.
Illustration: scientificamerican.com.
However, as early as May 2017, the Chinese agency Xinhua reprinted an article in the Wuhan Evening News about how the head of the technical department for disinfection and control of pesticides at the Wuhan Disease Prevention and Control Center has been gathering bats for study and has been in a situation where he could have contracted the deadly virus several times.
He is thus Jun-hua Tian, who has been involved in collecting more than 600 bats across China.
Jun-hua Tien from the Centre for Disease Prevention and Control in Wuhan.
However, during the operation (to capture bats) Tien Junhua forgot to take protective measures: the bat's urine dripped like raindrops from his head.
If he had contracted it, he wouldn't have been able to find a cure.
Tian Junhua then tried to calm down: "Until the incubation period of 14 days passes, he may be lucky and he will avoid contamination."
When he returned home, he was in self-isolation for half a month on his own initiative, "says a publication about the courage of the Uhanian researcher.
They are echoed in the article and other stories when Tian Junhua took the risk: "There are sharp claws on the wings of a fly mouse, so they are taken with special clamps that can damage the animal.
As a result, his wounds may bleed, and on several occasions the bat's blood has hit Tien Junhua's skin.
But he was not afraid at all, and fortunately he escaped contamination. "
Translated from Xinhua to Google.
Last December, a 7-minute film about a 40-year-old researcher was released on the website of the China Science and Technology Association, China Science Communication, as part of the Youth in the Wild project.
However, this time Tien Junhua did not mention the incident, and the bats were caught in protective gear, although not exactly as stated in scientific literature.
It is not known whether any expeditions were carried out to hunt bats on the eve of the epidemic.
It is known, however, that studies and trials with coronaviruses continue to be carried out in the Uhanian laboratories.
For example, on 18 November 2019, the Wuhan Institute of Virology announced the appointment of a PhD in a disciplinary panel headed by Dr. Zhou Peng.
He is reportedly studying viral infections and bat immunity.
Translation of information from the Virology Institute website in Wuhan to Google.
On 24 December, when the outbreak of the disease began, the Batwoman group Shi Zhenli announced the hiring.
The area of work for the candidate is to study migration of bats and virus infection; inter-species infection of the bat virus and its pathogenicity.
Information on the Institute's website states that the group is involved in the detection of viruses and their direct research.
Where is the evidence of infection in the ear labs?
I never expected this to happen in Wuhan, central China.
Studies have shown that the southern subtropical regions of Guangdong, Guangxi, and Yunnan have the highest risk of transmission of coronavirus from animal to human - particularly from bats.
If the coronaviruses were the cause, if they couldn't come from our lab, I thought when it all started, "Shi Zhenli told Scientific American.
Then she actually swore her life to the Chinese media that there were no leaks from the lab.
Meanwhile, Chinese social media actively discussed Huan Yanlin, who was allegedly a "zero" patient.
Information from the website of the Institute of Virology in Wuhan.
The Institute of Virology was forced to make a statement.
Recently, unverified information has circulated on the Internet that our graduate, Huan Yanlin, is the so-called 'zero patient' who first contracted new coronavirus.
After checking our institute states the following: Huan Yanlin graduated from our institute with a master's degree in 2015.
During her studies she studied the functions of bacteriophage lyase and a wide range of antibacterial activity.
After graduation, she worked and lived in other provinces.
She is healthy and has not been diagnosed with the disease, "said the 16 February communication.
Translation of information from the Virology Institute website in Wuhan to Google.
Indeed, online scientific libraries can find work up to 2016, in which Huan Yanlin participated and was identified as an employee of the Institute of Virology's Key Laboratory for Special Pathogens and Biosafety.
In later works, her full thesis was cited as a representative of other universities in China.
It is noteworthy that Huan Yanlin herself was not shown to the public, and she did not make any statements, although social media was discussing that she was no longer alive.
Such "openness" by the Chinese authorities did little to convince skeptical proponents of the leak.
In the next history, the authorities acted in the same way.
On February 17, a user of Chinese microblog service Weibo, who identified himself as an employee of the Virology Institute Chen Kuanchao, claimed that the director of the institute was responsible for the leak of the new coronavirus.
He allegedly sold animals from the lab to the seafood market.
When the scandal began, the Institute of Virology, on behalf of Chen Quanzao, made a statement that it had nothing to do with Weibo.
The version of the contamination in one of the laboratories in Odhna has also been greatly "heated" by the news that the level of safety and management in the scientific institutions is leaving the best to be desired.
This was reported this week by The Washington Post with reference to the defections of US diplomats from the Chinese embassy in Washington in 2018.
They referred to scientists who had visited the laboratories.
Why should Americans keep quiet about the ear labs?
As the reason why bats were actively studied in Wuhan, American television calls competition with the US and the desire of the Chinese to advance scientists across the Pacific.
However, as EADaily has already written, in the United States, apart from Plam Island, research into particularly dangerous zoonotic infections is prohibited without direct guidance from the Minister of Agriculture.
And the US government has initiated and funded most of the projects to detect and study new bat coronaviruses in China.
And it turns out that Chinese scientists have been doing all the dirty work that is linked to the risks of contamination.
This is in fact stated in an essay on Jun-hua Tian from the Centre for Disease Prevention and Control in the Wuhan Evening News.
"Compared to the advanced technologies and tools used in the follow-up research, the work of trapping bats is largely dependent on physical strength, so it is more difficult," he told Jun-hua Tien.
He reported that the collection and identification of most of the research samples was carried out by the Uhhans Center: "This is the most important preliminary work, and it is also work that many academic researchers do not want to touch on: it is difficult, dangerous, it is difficult to get funding out, and, more importantly, it is not easy to get results."
This is how they took swabs from bats in 2004.
Illustration: scientificamerican.com.
The American Society of Microbiology (NCBI) has published a number of collaborative work by Uhan Laboratories with the non-governmental organization EcoHealth Alliance, which has been a major partner from the United States.
And each of them mentions only one United States representative, the President of the EcoHealth Alliance, Peter Dash.
For example, in a study of how specialists caught hundreds of bats and discovered 11 new coronaviruses, it was explicitly stated that Americans had a very indirect relationship to both the collection and the experiments themselves - Dasak was responsible for funding the project, reviewing and editing the text of scientific work.
Image: ncbi.nlm.nih.gov.