Geneticists have found no mutations in SARS-CoV-2 that make it more contagious or deadly.
The researchers have verified over 12,000.
unique genomic mutations.
A team of geneticists from University College London checked over 10,000.
SARS-CoV-2 has not been shown to be more contagious.
New Atlas.
Since the beginning of the year, there have been reports that the new coronavirus has mutated again and strains that are more contagious and deadly may appear.
But, according to the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization (GAVI), the virus is constantly mutating, and the vast majority of these changes have absolutely no impact on the virus's infectivity and mortality.
Mutation is the modification of the virus genome: a set of genetic instructions containing all the information the virus needs to function.
When the virus is replicated, this set of instructions needs to be copied, sometimes making mistakes.
Depending on where errors occur in the genome, they can have a negative or positive effect on the virus's ability to survive and reproduce.
Or, as in most cases, they may have no influence at all, "reports GAVI.
SARS-CoV-2 is perhaps the most studied virus of all time.
Since its introduction in late 2019, scientists have been closely monitoring its evolution.
Lucy van Dorp of the Institute of Genetics at University College London has been monitoring the genome changes of the virus since the beginning.
The number of SARS-CoV-2 genomes generated for scientific research is staggering.
At an early stage of the pandemic, we realized that we needed new approaches to analyze huge amounts of data in near-real-time mode to identify mutations in the virus that could affect its transmission or the severity of symptoms, "said van Dorp.
In a new study, the group examined a large data set of virus genomes of more than 40,000.
99 countries.
The study found 12,706 unique genomic mutations, and eventually identified 185 specific mutations that were repeated on at least three occasions.
Repeated independent mutations are important because they can speak of the virus's attempts to adapt.
Among the identified mutations, the team was unable to find one that could be more contagious.
To date, none of the 185 recurrent mutations in the SARS-CoV-2 population is statistically significant to be related to transmission.
Thus, the vast majority of mutations are essentially neutral in the context of transmission and viability of the virus, "says the authors.
Scientists suggest that the virus could have reached its optimum form by the time it was first observed in January.
The lead author of the study, François Ballou, says that after the virus first became human, there was a short period of optimization.
This period could well have come in late 2019 before the virus began its journey around the world.
We could have missed this period of early human adaptation.
We had previously assumed that SARS-CoV-2 had passed to humans in October or November 2019, but the first genomes we have are dated to the end of December.
By that time, the virus could already have mutations that are crucial to human transmission, "Ballu said.