Bill Gates, Canada and the Chinese Government.
The consultants are looking for the creators of the coronavirus, and the theories have no end.
As governments around the world try to stop the spread of the new coronavirus, social network users are looking for its cause.
Some theories seem really strange: Canadians and Bill Gates and his wife were blamed for everything.
Others have proved to be almost as dangerous as the disease itself.
In December 2019, a coronavirus called 2019-nCoV began to spread in Wuhan, China, and by early 2020 the disease had spread across the country.
By Friday, January 31, the number of people infected exceeded 7,700 and at least 170 died.
According to the World Health Organization (WHO), there are already 18 countries in the world, so on 30 January the outbreak of coronavirus was recognized as an emergency of international importance.
Coronavirus 2019-nCoV
However, as recently revealed, the danger of 2019-nCoV is not only its rapid spread and the possibility of a fatal outcome.
There is also a side effect: the Internet has been flooded with rumors about the origin of the coronavirus and ways to protect itself from it.
Bleaching agent for coronavirus
Due to the spread of coronavirus, the QAnon community began promoting the use of MMS (Miracle Mineral Solution) to prevent the disease.
Members of the community are people who believe that US President Donald Trump is fighting a secret world government that includes Clinton, Obama, Soros, the Rothschild, and his media, parties, and corporations.
According to the Daily Beast, QAnon has long been spreading information that MMS treats everything from cancer to HIV.
And in his recent video, well-known QAnon propagandist Jordan Sauser explained that the liquid will help with the coronavirus.
Jordan Sezer
I'm going to go home and fill out the MMS.
Just exterminate them all this shit.
On Friday, January 31, Saser complained to subscribers that YouTube had deleted his clip on coronavirus.
On the other hand, the Twitter account of another QAnon supporter - Chief Police 2 - called for the purchase of a new MMS spray - "Spray 20-20-20."
China is closing the exit for 36 million people because of a deadly new virus.
New subscribers, protect yourself with "Spray 20-20-20."
It was only in August 2019 that journalists from Vice found that a laudable cure for all diseases is actually a bleach - and that using it inside is definitely not worth it.
The product is a 28% sodium chlorite solution in distilled water.
Users are advised to mix it with lemon or lime juice and drink.
But when this product is mixed with acid, it turns into chlorine dioxide, which is a bleaching solution.
At the same time, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) issued a statement about MMS.
"Wonderful Mineral Solution" and other similar products are not approved by the FDA, and their use is similar to that of a simple bleach.
Indeed, when ingested, it can easily cause nausea, diarrhoea or even death.
Coronavirus - Bill Gates property
QAnon's supporters became the founders of another conspiracy theory about coronavirus.
The same Saser in his video referred to a patent for a vaccine against coronavirus in birds granted to a British institution in 2015.
And, he said, there was no one else behind it, like billionaire and Microsoft creator Bill Gates.
Sager's colleagues, the administrators of the Infowars conspiracy portal, also believe that Gates is involved in the appearance of the Ochanian coronavirus.
In their view, all of the entrepreneur's charitable endeavors are just a cover for the "depopulation program" whose tool has become the virus.
It is believed that the businessman plans to reduce and rehabilitate the Earth's population, and the outbreak of disease in China is the work of his subordinates.
Journalist Mike Rothschild, who monitored QAnon, confirmed that the movement's supporters suspected Gates.
Bill Gates is a proponent of eugenics.
They 're also sharing information on Twitter about the billionaire' s connection to the virus.
Social network users post tweets with the same content, referring to the publication "Coronavirus Patented" on the dubious Usaytman.com.........
Coronavirus patented.
The main owners are the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation.
The secret government launched the virus to create chaos, realizing that Trump would not be stopped otherwise.
According to Forbes, a similar conspiracy theory spread in TikTok in the 20th century.
The Gates Foundation did fund the British Pearbright Institute, which obtained a patent for the development of a weakened strain of coronavirus to vaccinate birds and other animals.
Only the new species of coronavirus has nothing to do with this strain.
In the wake of disinformation, the Institute had to issue a statement.
Pirbrit does not currently work with human coronaviruses.
By the way, on Sunday, January 26, the Gates Foundation announced that it would allocate $10 million to combat the coronavirus epidemic.
The Cause of Disease - Terrible Asian Habits
Medics on the market in Wuhan
Another false theory about coronavirus is directly related to racism.
Not only ordinary social network users, but also charities began to publish sensational posts, blaming the outbreak on "Chinese barbaric habits."
For example, NBC News writes that the two most popular publications about coronavirus on Instagram belonged to Karmagawa, a non-profit organization that sacrifices the proceeds of its sales to charity.
Both posts were carousel videos, some of which show people eating bats and ordinary mice.
Their authors are blamed for the spread of Asian disease and their eating habits.
Viral posts gathered tens of millions of views and hundreds of thousands of likes before being removed as violating community rules.
One of them was tweeted by British journalist Rosalyn Warren.
A colleague of my friend sent her this viral Instagram post about coronavirus and asked if they were eating strange food in the Asian country where she came from.
In addition, journalist Caitlin Welsh of Mashable drew attention to an error-ridden message that social media users (especially Australians) send to each other on a massive scale.
The text attributed to NSW Health (Australia's largest health care system) links the spread of coronavirus to some Asian products and warns readers against visiting Chinese restaurants.
NSW Health has already denied this information.
NSW Health has become aware of a text that is being circulated on social media and calls for certain types of foods not to be eaten in some places in Sydney.
This text has nothing to do with NSW Health and there is no designated department.
In fact, "fly soup," which appears so often in such posts, has nothing to do with coronavirus.
A viral video of a girl eating an unusual delicacy was not filmed in China.
The character of the video is Van Mengyun, an online travel presenter who has tasted a local dish in the Pacific island country of Palau.
Inflatable with the same flying mouse
Scientists do not exclude that the onset of the epidemic may have been associated with so-called "wet" markets, where wild animals are sold for medicine and food, and stalls are constantly watered to keep them clean.
The virus seems to have actually appeared in bats, and then evolved and somehow passed on to humans.
However, the distribution of coronavirus 2019-nCoV is not related to Chinese cuisine: it is transmitted by air-drip, contact, and air-dust.
And one new study shows that the earliest victims of the disease had no contact with "wet" markets.
At the same time, the spread of such rumours led to panic and increased racist attitudes in society.
The Chinese are increasingly accused of the emergence and spread of the new virus.
In countries such as Malaysia and Indonesia, where ethnic Chinese already face discrimination, this trend is already gaining momentum and could end in lamentable consequences.
Canadian lab infected China
Winnipeg Microbiology Laboratory
As the origin of the new coronavirus and its route from animals to humans has not yet been explained, some connoisseurs have found new culprits - Canadians.
Proponents of this theory argue that the key to the solution can be found at the Canadian National Microbiology Laboratory in Winnipeg, which deals with dangerous pathogens.
On Saturday, January 28, Canadian journalist Karen Pauls, reporting on the lab's work, was forced to review some of the "laboratory theory" in order to explain that conspiracy theorists mistakenly relied on its texts.
My texts about the National Microbiology Laboratory began to be distorted to create a conspiracy theory about coronavirus.
One of the first mentions was on Twitter this Saturday.
Businessman Kyle Bass has stated that it was "a spy team from a husband and wife from China."
Social media users began accusing a Chinese scientist of spreading the disease, who, along with her husband and several subordinates, was suspended for "violating laboratory policy" in the summer of 2019.
Virologist Hong Qiu at the 2018 Rido Hall Innovation Awards
The journalist admitted that she had written about the case, but there was no talk of espionage or the development of a coronavirus.
Hong Qiu is a virologist from Tianjin, China.
She came to Canada to study post-graduate studies in 1996 and still works there at the university.
Her husband, Keating Cheng, worked in the laboratory as a biologist, and is the author of works on HIV, SARS, intestinal worm and Creutzfeldt-Jakob syndrome.
The new theory probably attracted the attention not only of the news of Qiu's removal, but also of the article that Ebola and Henip viruses were sent from the Winnipeg Laboratory to Beijing in March 2019.
Now, the conspiracy theorists claim that Qiu, who made the cure for Ebola, sent a coronavirus to China.
The Canadian Health Agency has already commented on "laboratory theory" for the National Post.
This is disinformation.
The statements made on social media have no basis in fact.
Coronavirus - China 's biological weapon
The scientists of the Wuhan Institute of Virology put identification marks on their protective suits.
Finally, the latest popular conspiracy theory is that the new species of coronavirus was created by Chinese bioengineers at the request of the government and "leaked" from the Wuhan Institute of Virology.
Twitter followers are gaining popularity on social media.
Many commentators have cited two articles in the Washington Times.
One author writes that former Israeli military intelligence officer Dani Shoham, who studied biological weapons development in China, believes that the Wuhan Institute is linked to the Beijing biological weapons program.
Certain laboratories at the institute were probably involved in [biological weapons development] from a research point of view - at least indirectly, but were not the main tool of Chinese military development.
A similar suspicion was raised by the Daily Star.
However, the article on the "secret laboratory" was soon revised, adding a suggestion that there was no evidence for such charges.
Due to the flood of misinformation on Twitter, it is now possible to configure search results to filter out unreliable content, and Google has added a service to inform about coronavirus.
SOS Alert mode is activated when searching for coronavirus or similar search queries.
As a result, reliable resources are available at the top of the extradition.
SOS Alert allows sharing of accurate information about the virus
And in Russian-language infoprostronism, there are enough myths about coronavirus.
Bananas have been the victim of rumours.
Because of the panic and massive WhatsApp mailing, people simply refuse to buy harmless fruit.
In Russia, a fake method of treatment for the new disease appeared..
Arbidol manufacturers began advertising the drug as a coronavirus drug.
Evidence-based medicine does not consider the drug to be effective at all.
Other stories