Vaccine case: 23 types of pneumococcal vaccine will help prevent COVID-19 disease
Vaccination against pneumococcal infection will help prevent coronavirus infection or mild transmission.
Russian scientists told News that adults would be better off with a 20-year-old vaccine, and children and the elderly with a 13-year-old vaccine.
The difference between them is the set of strains of a dangerous bacterium against which protection is being developed.
According to experts, a timely injection will avoid bacterial complications with COVID-19 and improve the immune system.
This is also confirmed by foreign scientific groups.
For example, researchers from Italy have shown that those infected with pneumococcal disease were significantly less likely to have a positive test for a new infection last year.
Healthy coverage
Russian immunologists and epidemiologists strongly recommend that adults and children be vaccinated against pneumococcal disease to ensure that they are not infected with coronavirus.
These vaccines can significantly improve the work of barrier immunity of mucous membranes, according to "Izvestia" research professor of BFU named Kant Andrey Prodeus.
- This is absolutely confirmed fact: those vaccinated against pneumococcal disease are less likely to get infected and less prone to complications, "said the specialist.
- Their immunity is capable of withstanding any respiratory viruses, including SARS-COV-2.
In some regions of Russia, the pneumococcal vaccine is part of free regional programs.
According to the scientist,
Control of pneumococcal infection severely reduces any complications of respiratory diseases, especially among children.
These include diseases such as pus, out-of-hospital pneumonia, gaymoritis.
Most of them have to be pneumococcal, so if the patient is protected from it, they recover much faster.
, added Andrei Prodeus.
Discussions about whether a pneumococcal vaccine can save COVID-19 have been going on in the scientific world for a long time.
Various scientific articles have shown that such vaccinations may worsen the condition of the infected or have no health effects.
However, recent observations show that in countries with higher populations of pneumococcal infections, mortality from coronavirus is lower.
In particular,
A scientific team from Italy, including experts from the geriatric departments of the Faculty of Medicine of the University of Padua and the biomedical campus in Rome, published an article analysing how influenza and pneumococcal vaccination correlate with the results of PCR tests on COVID-19.
The study found that adults and elderly respondents who received pneumococcal vaccine last year were far less likely to have a positive result of a coronavirus test than their unvaccinated peers.
For adults and children
Two types of pneumococcal vaccines are currently widely used worldwide: PPV13 (13-valent), which is directed against 13 serotypes of pneumococcal disease, and PPV23 (20-teravalent).
There are still PPV7 and PPV10, but they are considered obsolete and are rarely used.
I strongly recommend that adults be vaccinated against pneumococcal disease during a pandemic, especially if they are people with chronic diseases and smokers.
They will fit PPV23, - explained "Izvestia" infectionist, vaccinologist Yevgeny Timakov.
- Children should do PPV13.
The first is effective on more subtypes of pneumococcus, but it is less purified and can be more difficult to tolerate.
Chief epidemiologist of the Ministry of Health of Russia, Head of the Department of Epidemiology and Evidence Medicine, Director of the Institute of Public Health.
F. F. Erisman of Sechenov University (university - participant in the project to improve the competitiveness of education "5-100") Nikolai Briko told Izvestia that it is too early to tell which vaccine is more effective in reducing the lethality and number of severe cases of coronavirus infection, since no one has yet conducted a comparative analysis of them in the context of the pandemic.
However, there are indeed recommendations that clearly specify to whom the drug is given.
- It is recommended that children under two years of age use the conjugated thirteen-valent vaccine, "said the specialist.
- For people over 65 years of age, as well as patients with chronic diseases, we recommend starting with her, and after a year we will be introducing 20-year-old.
For healthy adults, a 20-fold vaccine is recommended.
Standard dose
According to Nikolai Briko,
In the case of coronavirus infection, a combined vaccination (for pneumococcus and once for influenza) is important.
It is assumed that in this case the person will be protected not only from these infectious agents, but will also benefit from COVID-19.
Recently, it has been shown that these vaccines reduce the number of deaths and the severity of the disease due to the possible stimulation of innate immunity or any cross-immune response.
Vaccination against pneumococcus (as well as influenza) can be done in both public and private clinics.
Vaccination according to the indications for certain groups of the population (children, pensioners, people with chronic diseases) can be carried out in the usual polyclinic in the place of residence, with prior confirmation from the doctor of the availability of the drug.
Vaccination can also be carried out at immunization centres - fee or DMS depending on the region and the work of the clinic.
For example, in Moscow, adults and children can be vaccinated free of charge at the center of the Mechnikov Vaccine and Serum Research Institute.
It is possible to make a protective injection privately in different clinics, the price varies from 2 to 5 thousand.
Rubles.
Although vaccination against pneumococcal infections can have a significant impact on the number of bacterial complications associated with coronavirus, scientists caution:
Such vaccinations may be contraindicated for a number of persons.
These include the unacceptability of the components of the drug, the first two trimesters of pregnancy if there are no separate recommendations from the doctor, respiratory diseases at the time of vaccination, worsening of chronic pathology and fever of any origin.
Even if there is no resistance, the vaccine can cause a short rise in temperature.
Previously, vaccination against pneumococcus was recommended by the head of the Ministry of Health of the Russian Federation Mikhail Murashko.
Vaccination, he said, would make it safer to go through a period of worsening seasonal ARVs.
Play video
Play
No sound
Duration 0: 00
Loading: 0%
Progress: 0 per cent
Type of trocaONLINE
Time remaining - 0: 00
Play speed
Chapters
Chapters
Description of omission selected
Descriptions
Subtitles off, selected
Subtitles
captions settings, open the signature settings dialog
Signing off selected
Signatures
Sound track
Full Screen Mode
It is not possible to download the video due to network or server failure, or the format is not supported.
Font Size 50% 75% 100% 125% 150% 175% 200% 300% 400%
DefaultDone
Similar
Similar
3.5 thousand
Volunteers received Sputnik V vaccine
Murashko spoke about the post-registration testing of Sputnik V vaccine
Over 60,000.
Satellite V test
Russian Sputnik V vaccine undergoing post-registration testing
All regions received trial batches of Sputnik V vaccine
The Russian Sputnik V vaccine began testing in Belarus
Vector will release two versions of the COVID-19 vaccine
Experts assessed three Russian COVID-19 vaccines
81-year-old Moskvika participated in tests of Sputnik V vaccine
The Ministry of Health authorized clinical trials of the third coronavirus vaccine
The first series of "EpiVachones" vaccines will count 10,000.
dose
Manturov spoke about the release of coronavirus vaccine in Russia
Vector completed testing of second COVID-19 vaccine
Experts explained which COVID-19 vaccine to choose
Russians ordered temporary self-isolation after arriving from abroad
Share
Share
Code to insert the player into your site:
Autostart Click CTRL + C to copy the selected code