Where did the coronavirus come from: China points to India, WHO seeks the truth
On November 24, Genmin Jibao posted a Facebook post.
In it, the newspaper quoted former chief epidemiologist of China's Centre for Disease Control and Prevention (CCDC), Chen Guang.
In particular, he said that the virus was first discovered in Wuhan, but it originated elsewhere.
Another CCDC epidemiologist, Wu Zhongyu, also stated that the infection could have reached China through imported frozen products.
In support of the theory, the newspaper wrote that in Italy antibodies to coronavirus were found in blood samples taken as early as September 2019.
Chinese scientists have spoken more extensively about the emergence of the coronavirus.
They sent an article to the oldest medical journal, Lancet (its preprint was published on 17 November, but the article itself had not yet been reviewed or published in the journal).
It states that before the infection reached Wuhan, it evolved.
Chinese scientists have also theorized that coronavirus could first be transmitted from person to person in July or August 2019.
A possible source of the pathogen has been named India.
China's information campaign was continued by Zhao Lixian, an official of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
"China was the first country to report COVID-19 cases, but that doesn't mean that the virus originated in China," he said.
But, as the Guardian notes, Western scientists doubt that the virus could have originated outside China.
For example, Jonathan Stoye of the Francis Crick Institute in London noted that antibodies found in Italy in blood samples taken in September 2019 were created to fight other coronaviruses, not specifically SARS-CoV-2.
Scientists have also questioned theories about transmission of the virus through frozen foods.
According to experts, the probability of contracting coronavirus in this way is low.
The Guardian notes that as the world's infection situation deteriorates, Chinese authorities are trying to protect their reputation.
In part, this is why Beijing is providing health care to other countries, as well as offering financial support for immunization programmes.
The true origin of the virus is still unknown.
One of the most likely versions today is that coronavirus appeared in the seafood market in Wuhan.
The first to use it in its present form was the bat.
However, Chinese scientists have been insisting for more than six months that the pathogen could not have been on the market.
There are other versions of the origin of the coronavirus, but they have less evidence.
For example, as early as spring, US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo stated that the pathogen could have been developed at Wuhan's Chinese laboratory.
He also referred to experts who spoke of the artificial origin of the virus.
This theory has not been confirmed.
The World Health Organization is planning to trace the origin of the infection, gathering an international team of scientists.
It includes 10 people who work in public health, animal health and virology.
Scientists from 10 countries include Russia, Japan, Denmark, Australia, the United Kingdom and the United States.
They will work with Chinese colleagues.
On October 30, they had a virtual conference.
It is not yet clear when they will go to China for research.
The Chinese authorities promise to accept the researchers soon.