Hand-held virus?
Why the Pandemic Is Not to Blame Mad Scientists
Photo by Brian Inganga / AP / TASS
US authorities have accused China of pandemics, and media reports are increasingly revealing the possible artificial origin of the virus.
Is there a scientific basis for such speculation?
Mikhail Gelfand, Vice-President of Skolteha for Biomedical Research, answers this question
According to United States Secretary of State Mike Pompeo last week, the authorities allegedly have serious evidence that the virus that caused the COVID-19 epidemic originates from the Special Pathogens Laboratory of the Virology Institute in Wuhan.
At the same time, popular articles began to appear on various resources, directly suggesting the artificial origin of the virus.
Is there any evidence for such conspiracy theories?
Two different claims should be made here.
There is nothing in the American authorities' statement that the virus was created artificially: it was just a leak from a laboratory.
Moreover, US chief infectious agent Anthony Fawcett (also representing the administration) has explicitly stated that there is no need to talk about the artificial origin of the virus.
With regard to laboratory leakage, this scenario is almost impossible to confirm or disprove.
Runaway virus
Imagine the situation: in the Wuhan market, someone was sharing a flying mouse, got infected by it, and the epidemic started.
Now another option: the flying mouse was brought to the Wuhan Institute of Virology, the virus was removed, someone got infected, the epidemic started.
While the market is a very short distance from the institution, it is practically impossible to separate the two scenarios: no arguments can be made here in principle except circumstantial.
There is a theoretical possibility to distinguish a virus that has evolved in the wild from a virus that has evolved in the laboratory: in tissue culture passages, the virus does not have host immunity systems, and in nature it is an essential factor of natural selection.
The statistics of the accumulated differences in the genome in these cases may differ in principle.
However, very little is known about how vertebrate immunity guides the natural selection of the virus; little is known about bat immunity itself.
Modern bioinformatics is still simply incapable of solving such problems.
How likely is it that one of the staff members who started the epidemic was infected as a result of a breach of laboratory procedures?
It 's hard for me to judge because I' m not an experimental biologist.
And I know from my math class that there 's no probability in single events.
If there were 1,000 coronaviruses in the world and three of them were leaking, the probability would be 0.3%, but no estimates can be made for a single case in a single laboratory.
If I were offered a bet in a pool, I would refuse to play such a game.
Which companies will stop the coronavirus pandemic?
Virus as a weapon
Consider the artificial origin of the virus.
It is clear that such a project could be pursued either with the sinister aim of destroying humanity or through the development of biological weapons.
The hateful maniac's hypothesis can be dismissed on the grounds that he is unlikely to have the necessary resources.
With regard to biological weapons, this hypothesis seems highly unlikely here.
Since the early 2000s, the Wuhan Laboratory has been publishing scientific articles on coronaviruses in the open press, in particular in the journal Nature.
This is not well matched with top-secret military developments in the same laboratory.
There were no such examples in the USSR or anywhere in the world.
For example, researchers from the NGO Biopeperat and, in particular, from the military laboratory in Sverdlovsk-19, have not published any articles on anthrax in either the national or foreign scientific journal.
Of course, I would not be surprised to learn that such developments are taking place somewhere in the DPRK, China or even Russia.
We know that the military often does strange things (weapons "psychotic," "climatic," "genetic," etc.) and can inspire strange ideas to the country's leadership, especially in authoritarian and totalitarian regimes.
But from a practical point of view, it 's pretty stupid..............
The lack of biological weapons is that they are not selective.
In order for its use to be meaningful, at the very least, it must be ensured that the enemy becomes ill, but that it does not become contagious (otherwise it is impossible to protect its own armed forces from contamination, even if the civilian population is forgotten).
On the other hand, action must be swift - otherwise what is the weapon?
A highly virulent virus with a long incubation period as a weapon is nonsense.
Virus as an experiment error
However, it may still be worth discussing that the virus was designed as a result of a laboratory experiment for research purposes and then leaked.
It is this scenario that is actually only discussed among professionals, and everything else is the fate of the yellow press.
Such a plot would not contradict the laws of nature or the logic of scientific research.
Here, however, it makes sense to consider - and reject, on the basis of scientific evidence - specific scenarios.
In the early stages of the pandemic, there was no shortage of theories.
As early as February, it was suggested that SARS-CoV-2 was the result of a combination of coronavirus and HIV; the article was soon withdrawn.
Another variant is recombinant based on a virus obtained in the same laboratory and described in a 2015 article in Nature.
The idea also failed to withstand criticism.
No coherent scenarios are now proposed, only discussed specifically.
Such discussions among professionals have long been conducted in a language that is not understood by the general public.
Is it possible that the new virus originated as a result of recombination already known?
No, in that case, it would not have been able to accumulate such a number of genetic differences from ancestral viruses.
Could the differences be due to artificial mutagenesis?
No, the frequency ratio of semantic and synonymic substitutions is not the same as in artificial mutagenesis.
There is, of course, a variant of an unknown genius who invented a viral RNA sequence from his head, recorded it on a napkin, and ordered it in a commercial laboratory.
You can synthesize any RNA molecule.
However, the existence of unknown geniuses who discovered the secrets of virus-cell interactions in such detail (and did not publish their work anywhere) is questionable.
Another possibility - that thousands of Chinese graduate students have done so by trial and error - is also questionable: Wuhan's research is traced back to dozens of published articles and is subject to its internal logic, which does not suggest that viral proteins should be engineered in this way at all.
GMO, human cloning, artificial virus.
What's next?
The spread of speculation about the artificial origin of SARS-CoV-2 naturally continues the history of public panic, when people suspected biologists of insidious experiments that posed a threat to civilization.
The result?
Of course, there may be "luddite movements," which will go to destroy laboratories, just as they have already destroyed GMO laboratories or, more recently, 5G communication towers.
But there is another side to this story: people can think about how fragile their civilization is in terms of biological threats.
They may finally realize that biology is not only interesting, but also extremely important.
The history of coronavirus has raised many questions for modern civilization.
We remember that the first SARS epidemic in 2003 was stopped by tracking the infected chains.
This was possible because the coronavirus did not have a period of asymptomatic transmission - the infected immediately fell ill.
Work on the vaccine, which had begun to be developed, was soon halted because the virus had completely disappeared from the human population.
However, scientists already knew that there were large natural reservoirs of various coronaviruses and that they could jump from animals to humans.
This is the subject of almost all articles on coronavirus.
There are other viruses that come from wild animals, say, the Ebola virus.
In theory, we understand that increasing contact with wildlife, on the one hand, and increasing the permeability of the world, travel, air communications, on the other, make the world vulnerable to potential pathogens.
And yet another epidemic caught us unprepared again.
Perhaps now is the time to realize that if we do not want to wait for the next epidemic, we need to look more closely at this range of problems.
I hope that it is this idea, rather than calls for the destruction of laboratories and not the scarecrows (or searchlights for how to turn) about another super-weapon, that will dominate mankind's future development.