Bloomberg: WHO links COVID-19 to China's animal trade
The seafood market in Wuhan, China
NEW YORK, March 22.
/ TASS /.
Experts at the World Health Organization (WHO) suggest that the origin of the new coronavirus may have been related to the animal trade in China.
This is stated in a paper published Sunday by Bloomberg.
It notes that a report, prepared by WHO experts who had previously visited Uhan, is expected to be published this week.
According to the agency, the conclusions presented in the document "will be far from final."
The report would allegedly contain a version that suggested that the new coronavirus might be of similar origin to the virus that causes severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS).
Its original hosts were bats, and it passed to humans through small mammals - Himalayan cysts, the material says.
The publication quotes British zoologist Peter Daszak, who, among other experts led by WHO, had previously visited China.
He reported that in the market in Wuhan animals were being sold that could be infected with new coronavirus from bats and handed over to a human.
"The key conclusion at this stage of the work, which is of course not yet completed, is that the same path as the TORS originated also existed for the new coronavirus," Daszak said.
He expressed confidence that over the next few years more data would emerge on the origin of the new coronavirus.
Australian microbiologist Dominic Duyer, who was also part of a group of experts who visited China, suggested that the new coronavirus could begin to spread from an infected animal in Wuhan.
WHO experts arrived in Wuhan to study the origin of the new type of coronavirus on 14 January.
Upon arrival, they were placed in a two-week quarantine, during which they consulted their Chinese counterparts via video link.
During the visit, experts visited the Huan seafood market, where the first outbreak of coronavirus was recorded in December 2019, a number of infectious hospitals in the city, as well as the Huan Institute of Virology.
At a final press conference on 9 February, representatives of the international group stated that they had not achieved any major breakthrough, but in a joint effort with Chinese colleagues they were able to identify the main hypotheses of the coronavirus.