Serpents: A source of the Chinese coronavirus has been.....................
The first source of the coronavirus that invaded China may have been snakes - crabs and cobras, according to Chinese researchers.
The results of this study were published in the Journal of Medical Virology.
An outbreak of coronavirus in the Chinese city of Wuhan was reported in December.
To date, the number of infected persons has exceeded 570.
95 in critical condition, 17 dead.
Initially, most of the patients hospitalized were employees or buyers in the local seafood wholesale market.
The meat of other edible animals - rats, badgers, camels, birds, reptiles - was also sold there.
Since coronavirus is not known to infect marine animals, the outbreak was thought to be related to other products.
A new study confirms this assumption: the genetic code of the 2019-nCoV virus is similar to the strains that cause SARS in bats.
Analysis of the RNA "crown" of virions also showed that the virus mutated before becoming contagious to humans.
A closer examination of the genetic code of the virus showed that
even more similar to a strain that attacks snakes.
In the wild, they often hunt bats, and the virus may first mutate to attack them.
Snakes were sold on the market and could well have been a source of the epidemic.
However, how the virus managed to adapt to both warm-blooded and cold-blooded remains a mystery.
The origin of the virus has yet to be traced.
Since the beginning of the epidemic, the market has been closed, making it difficult to find an animal source.
To confirm the origin of the virus, it is necessary to take samples of viral RNA from animals sold on the market, as well as wild snakes and bats.
However, the results of the study will already provide an insight into the development of prevention and treatment protocols.
A man who came to the States from the city of Wuhan was injured.
This was reported by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).
The condition of the man is now assessed as stable.
Health officials note that the risk of the virus spreading in the country is still low, so there is no need to panic.
CDC issued guidelines for health workers on symptoms of infection.
These include fever and symptoms of lower respiratory diseases, such as coughing or difficulty breathing, after travelling to Wuhan or close contact with a person who has been ill and may now be carrying the virus.
Close contact is defined as being within 2 m for a long period of time (e.g. cohabitation) without special protection.
Those who have travelled to Wuhan and then experienced the symptoms described should see a doctor as soon as possible.
You have to be informed in advance about your trip to this city.
It is also wise to avoid contact with other people.
Children and the elderly are at risk - they have the weakest immune system.
There is no vaccine for coronavirus.
To reduce the risk of infection, CDC experts recommend avoiding contact with people with symptoms similar to those of pneumonia or a cold, such as coughing or sneezing.
You can't touch your mouth, nose, eyes with your bare hands.
The hands should be washed as often as possible, and the hands should be disinfected with alcohol.
Animals and places of sale should also be avoided.
Coronavirus can be as deadly as Spanish flu, warns Professor Neil Ferguson of Imperial College London.
"The new viruses are spreading much faster because we do not yet have immunity to them," he says.
- The mortality from 2019-nCoV is about 2%, as in Spanish influenza. "
Most cases of pneumonia are caused by bacteria, as explained by specialists, so the disease can be defeated with antibiotics.
In the case of viral pneumonia, the treatment is predominantly supportive.
The coronavirus has not yet reached Russia.
Several people were hospitalized with symptoms that might indicate infection, but the fears were not confirmed.