Scientists have identified a possible source for the coronavirus 2019-nCoV.
Doctors transport patient, Wuhan Hospital, 17 January / © Getty Images
A new type of coronavirus from China, which in recent weeks has rocked world public opinion, could be transmitted to a human from a snake that ate an infected fly mouse.
A genetic analysis conducted by Chinese scientists established this.
In the past, Chinese authorities claimed that the source of the infection was in the wholesale Huang'an market in the densely populated city of Wuhan (Hubei Province), where they could trade illegally animals, including snakes, flying mice, crows, rabbits, and so on.
The first cases were identified among people who were either sellers in the market or permanent buyers.
The mall was closed and disinfected as early as 1 January, but the virus began to spread and soon spread outside the PRC.
The closed market of Huan / © France 24
Havana closed market / © Getty Images
In a new study published in
, scientists claim that the original source of 2019-nCoV could have been bats: specifically, a snake that had eaten an infected bat before and then hit a human on a dinner table.
As researchers explain, the transmission of the virus from animal to human is nothing sensational and new: Ebola and Zika virus are known examples of viruses that came to humans from animals.
In addition, experts found that 2019-nCoV belongs to the same family of viruses as both SARS-CoV (Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, or SARS) and MERS-CoV (Middle East Respiratory Syndrome): they are classified as zoonotic infections, i.e. zero patients have inherited them directly from certain species of animals.
To find out if 2019-nCoV could pass to humans in the same way, Wei Ji and colleagues from Beijing University compared the genomes of five samples of the new virus to 217 of its type, from different regions and from different carriers.
It was concluded that the coronavirus roaring in China originated from another coronavirus of unknown origin mixed with another type of coronavirus found in bats.
In addition, 2019-nCoV is most genetically similar to the types of viruses that are carried by snakes.
"Recombination in the protein that binds the virus receptor could have made possible inter-species transmission from snake to human," the authors argue.
Snake trade in a Chinese market / © Getty Images
Peter Rabinovich, a staff member at Washington University in Seattle, confirms that the new virus could have originated from a combination of bats and snakes: this is possible if two species of animals are housed together in close quarters - and this is the case in large markets.
However, it remains a mystery how the hybrid virus could adapt to both cold-blooded and warm-blooded hosts.
Scientists make a reservation that these are preliminary findings, the study is ongoing.
All passengers from Asia are screened at major airports / © Getty Images
On 22 January, the Emergency Committee of the World Health Organization held an emergency meeting to disseminate the new type of coronavirus.
Following the meeting, WHO officials stated that it was premature to declare a state of emergency due to an outbreak of pneumonia, as more information on the virus was needed.
Meanwhile, the number of victims of 2019-nCoV has reached 17, with an additional 600 cases identified.
The disease has spread to Japan, the United States, South Korea, and Thailand, with Singapore, Vietnam, and Saudi Arabia joining the list today.
As of today, the city of Wuhan has become virtually isolated: the authorities have announced the suspension of public transport, stations and airports.
Residents are advised not to leave their homes and, if symptoms (fever, cough, colic, shortness of breath) occur, to go to hospital immediately.
Starting at midnight on January 24, a similar regime will operate in Huangan (located in the same province of Hubei), where more than seven million people live.