The COVID-19 origin dispute can be concluded - it was created in the United States
History of the Chimera Virus
The origins of the COVID-19 coronavirus are disputed.
It was created by an international group of scientists in the United States in 2015.
The team included 12 American virologists, two Chinese experts from the Wuhan Institute of Virology and one Swiss scientist from the Zurich Institute of Biomedicine.
He headed the Vineet D. Menachery group, an assistant professor at several U.S. universities, whose primary work is Galveston National Laboratory (LNG) at the University of Texas at Austin.
A SARS-like cluster of circulating bat coronaviruses shows potential for human emergence was published on November 9, 2015 in Nature Medicine.
Vineet D. Menachery is the first author of this article.
This scientific publication states:
Using the reverse genetic system of SARS-CoV2, we have created and investigated a chimera virus that causes a spike in the mouse coronavirus SHC014 in the mouse-adapted SARS-CoV strain.
For reference, the method of reverse genetics is to manipulate individual genes.
In fact, it 's a trial and error method..
A chimera virus is a hybrid virus created by combining nucleic acid fragments from two or more different viruses.
The combination of two pathogenic viruses dramatically increases the lethality of the new virus.
The study by Vineet D. Menachery goes on to:
The results show that viruses of group 2b... can effectively replicate in the primary cells of the human respiratory tract and achieve titres in vitro (in a test tube).
Order.
), equivalent to epidemic strains of SARS-CoV.
In addition, in vivo experiments (under natural conditions).
- Red.
demonstrate chimera virus replication in light mice with marked pathogenesis.
Evaluation of available immunotherapeutic and prophylactic methods based on SARS showed low efficacy; approaches to both monoclonal antibodies and vaccines failed to neutralize and protect against CoV infection using a new spiked protein. "
Based on these results, a team of scientists led by Vineet D. Menachery reproduced the "infectious full-size recombinant virus SHC014" with "reliable replication of the virus both in vitro and in vivo."
The authors explained that they had created an extremely dangerous virus and announced that "the emergence of SARS-CoV marked a new era in the inter-species transmission of severe respiratory diseases with globalization leading to rapid spread throughout the world and huge economic consequences" [emphasis added].
- V.P.]
This publication is convincing evidence that the SARS-CoV chimeric coronavirus was artificially created in the United States under the leadership of a well-known American virologist from Galveston Laboratory.
The laboratory's research is funded, as the Italian expert Beatrice Cavalli writes, by "the Pentagon, the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), federal agencies and, of course, the biopharmaceutical industry."
Professor Francis Boyle of the University of Illinois at Champaign, USA, in October 2015, told the New Zealand news portal Scoop Nedia that "Galveston National Laboratory in Texas is a high-security research laboratory that searches for potential biological warfare agents in the wild in other parts of the world to turn them into biological weapons.
- V.P.] "
They say their Ebola work is related to the vaccine, but the same technology can be used for weapons.
Galveston works to spray Ebola, as Fort Detrick worked on anthrax spray.
The biological warfare agent's aerosol has always been an aid in the development of weapons to be delivered by air to people who will inhale it.
Galveston must be shut down, just as Fort Detrick is a criminal enterprise, "stressed Francis Boyle, unaware that a month from now, a scientific journal would report the creation of even more dangerous biological weapons in the United States.
Among the authors of the article in Nature Medicine is a Chinese professor of virology and researcher at the Shi Zhenli Wuhan Institute.
It was discovered that patients in Wuhan were infected with the new coronavirus 2019-nCoV.
It was her staff who "quickly sequenced the genome of the new coronavirus and shared the results with the world public, which enabled the search for a vaccine and the creation of antibody tests at an unprecedented speed," Deutsche Welle writes.
In recent weeks, Shi Zhenli "has become a target of social media harassment in both Asia and other regions of the world.
She is accused of leaking a coronavirus from the lab. "
Shi Zhenli denies the charges against him.
"I swear to life, the virus has nothing to do with the lab," she says.
Peter Daszak, president of the American organization EcoHealth Alliance, defended the Chinese virologist.
In an interview with National Public Radio, Daszak said that the virus had escaped from a Chinese laboratory.
Daszak worked with Shi Zhenli and testified that no samples of SARS-CoV-2 were stored in the laboratory in Wuhan.
However, if the laboratory in Wuhan did not have SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus, later renamed COVID-19, it was definitely in an American laboratory.
And it 's probably Galveston' s lab at the University of Texas.
Versions that the coronavirus was stolen from an American laboratory by Chinese scientists are untenable.
The Galveston Laboratory is guarded by Fort Knox.
The COVID-19 story is part of a globalist campaign conducted by Bill Gates.
It is also difficult to deny the involvement of the World Health Organization (WHO), which is largely funded by Gates.
Former Trump adviser Roger Stone, who is serving 40 months in prison for perjury on his involvement in an unproven conspiracy by Trump's campaign headquarters with the Kremlin, gave a radio interview a few days ago about prison bars, The Joe Piscopo Show, in which he stated that Bill Gates may have created a coronavirus to microchip people.
Speaking of the deadly virus, Stone said, "Whether Bill Gates played any role in creating and spreading the virus is an open question for heated debate.
I have conservative friends who say it 's ridiculous, and others who are absolutely convinced of it..
But here's what I know for sure.
He and other globalists definitely use them for forced vaccinations and microchips to mark those who have been tested.
Only through my body.
Forced vaccination?
Not in the world! "
While Roger Stone may still be suspected of loathing the globalists who imprisoned him for trying to protect Trump, the respected publication Politico published an article in May 2017 entitled "Meet Bill Gates, the world's most powerful doctor."
It stated that the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, whose third trustee is Warren Buffett, effectively took control of WHO through its generous contributions.
The authors of the article, European Politico correspondents Natalie Wee and Carmen Pon, wrote: "In the last decade, the richest person in the world has become the second largest donor to WHO, second only to the United States and ahead of the United Kingdom.
Such generosity has had an enormous impact on its agenda - an impact that may increase as the US and Britain threaten to cut funding if the organization does not find better use of funds. "
Thirty health NGOs sent an open letter to the WHO Executive Committee protesting "against making the Gates Foundation an official partner of the organization because its income comes from investments in companies that run counter to public health goals such as Coca-Cola."
In April 2018, the independent portal Mysterious Times wrote that Gates vaccines are a tool for reducing the Earth's population.
Mass vaccinations maim and kill thousands of children on different continents and result in the infertility of women.
The author of the Mysterious Times quoted Gates as saying, "By making people healthier, we can reduce the world's population."
Roger Stone's assumptions are not groundless.
The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation's official website contains information on collaboration with The Pirbright Institute in the UK, which studies animal viruses.
In 2018, the institute received a patent for a weakened strain of coronavirus that affects chickens.
The independent portal Human Are Free writes that it is "just another weaponized strain of the virus created to sell as many useless vaccines as possible, while killing thousands and possibly millions of people."
A careful review of the patent page shows that the Pirbriet Institute holds a number of patents on viruses, including a patent on African swine fever virus, which is listed as a "vaccine."
The context of this whole coronavirus situation gives the impression that Gates was once proposed as a "solution" to the supposed problem of "overpopulation."
And can it be done better than releasing a patented coronavirus into the mass to later introduce a patented vaccine for it? "
- the authors suggest publication.
Perhaps it would be useful for the US president to read the above-cited article in Nature Medicine, especially where it says that "the emergence of SARS-CoV marked a new era in the inter-species transmission of severe respiratory diseases with globalization leading to rapid spread around the world and huge economic consequences."
These words were written four years ago.
They are now being implemented.
If the US's 45th president cannot control the spread of the epidemic in the US, he is unlikely to be president for a second term.
And Trump has very little time.
Vladimir Propakilov, FSC
Subscribe to our channels to keep up to date with the most interesting news.!!
News-Front | Yandex Zen
and
Television portal Television portal