Flying mice: interrupted flight
Genetic studies show that COVID-19 is a close relative of other CoVs found in Chinese horseshoe bat populations, but there is no evidence to date that animals play a significant role in the spread of the disease....
The fact that a genome study of the new coronavirus has found a coincidence with the viruses carried by bats has been widely reported in the media.
The attempt to find the extreme in the wild is not new: representatives of BirdLife International recall that at the height of the avian influenza pandemic in 2006, migratory waterfowl were "named" to blame, and campaigns were launched to destroy them and their habitats.
In relation to current bat attacks BirdLife experts
published
a scientific article that they believe should refute the theory of bat "culpability" and prevent attempts to destroy bats.
Data on which the environmental organization 's conclusions are based - recent scientific evidence presented by the Convention on the Conservation of Migratory Species of Wild Animals (
), parties to the Agreement on the Conservation of European Bats (
) and other authorities.
We believe it is important to establish the truth.
Flying mice do not distribute COVID-19.
This virus is not transmitted from bats to humans, but from humans to other humans.
There is no evidence that bats directly infected humans with coronavirus.
Scientific research indicates a chain of events in which bats may be involved.
There are about 1,400 species of bats in the wild worldwide.
Many of them adapted to the urban environment, living in gardens, in urban parks and under bridges, without posing any threat to their neighbors - people. "
Armed but not dangerous
The bias towards flying mice has long roots.
Although bats did nothing wrong with humans, because of their "dark" way of life and unusual appearance in ancient times, they were considered to be supporters of unclean power.
In ancient times, flying mice were regarded as the product of evil.
Myths were spread that they were deliberately entangled in the hair and linked to the devil.
"It's not easy to be the only and most unusual flying mammal in the world," says Peter Alagon of the University of California, Santa Barbara, USA.
- Instead of blaming bats for coronavirus epidemics, I think it is important to know more about them. "
Flying mice in danger
Consider
Representatives of the International Union for Conservation of Nature and the International Organization for the Conservation of Bats are concerned that more than 20 species of bats are on the verge of extinction and more than 100 are small and very vulnerable.
There are about 40 species of bats in Russia, some of which are rare and listed in the Red Book.
All are harmless and even useful to humans, which feed on nocturnal insects, virtually inaccessible to birds.
One bat can eat up to 3,000 insects per night.
And it 's very useful to us.
tells
Johan Eklef, zoologist from Sweden.
- Insect bats play an important role in feeding on small parasites that attack our crops.
Research shows that bats worldwide save agriculture several billion dollars a year, protecting crops from pests. "
Flying mice are very sensitive to low temperatures.
In our area, winged insects disappear in autumn, so flying mice hibernate from mid-autumn to early spring.
Some species of bats find wintering grounds nearby, while others migrate to southern regions.
So it 's hard to imagine any activity of bats in the winter when the virus started spreading.
At the beginning of the two thousand scientists of the Ural Institute of Plant and Animal Ecology of the Ural branch of the Academy of Sciences headed by academician Vladimir Bolshakov conducted scientific research on the life of these animals and published a book on the feeding of animals.
The destruction of bats is unacceptable.
It 's ignorance and prejudice.
Flying mice distribute seeds and pollen, control the number of parasites, and are themselves food for other forest dwellers - monkeys, owls, hawks, even large spiders.
Only where each species knows its place does a healthy ecosystem emerge, "says the academician.
The extinction of bats will not help to combat the spread of COVID-19, but will have a negative impact on bat populations and therefore on the ecosystems of which they are part.
They need protection, the environmentalists believe.
A blood sample study for COVID-19.
Virology and conspiracy
At first, a version of a human coronavirus from a fly mouse seemed convincing.
At the end of 2019, a person suffering from a malnourished fly mouse at the famous Huan seafood market in Wuhan was infected by the animal COVID-19.
This event became a fatal event - the virus, unprecedented before the village of survivability, began to spread all over the world..........
However, an analysis by a group of Chinese scientists published in one of the world's most influential medical journals, The Lancet, showed that of the first 41 patients with the new coronavirus, 14 had no direct connection to the Wuhan market.
It is also known as the "Zero Patient," which may have been infected as early as November 2019.
On April 15, Fox News reported that the "zero patient" was an employee of the Wuhan Institute of Virology who accidentally contracted a bat while conducting research.
The research was conducted to "demonstrate China's equality with, or even superiority over, the United States in identifying and combating viruses."
In January - almost from the very beginning of coronavirus proliferation - numerous theories began to emerge, according to which COVID-19 not only came out of the Wuhan Institute of Virology, the largest specialized institute in the country, but was synthesized there.
However, the World Health Organization (WHO) says there is no evidence of this.
Later, The Lancet published a statement by prominent scientists from the United States, Germany, the Netherlands, and other countries who categorically reject the possibility of creating the virus in the laboratory and insist on its natural origin.
The Institute's openness to the world community is indirectly evidenced by its openness - it regularly publishes research results and cooperates with scientists from all over the world, some of whom come to work directly in Wuhan.
"It is noteworthy, however, that China has recently limited scientific publications on the sources of the emergence of a new coronavirus," writes Deutsche Welle.
All new studies must now be reviewed by a special government body before publication for "academic value and relevance of publication time."
However, this move may not be linked to the alleged artificial origin of COVID-19 or its "escape" from the laboratory, but to China 's attempt to conceal the traces of a deliberate underestimation of the true extent of the coronavirus outbreak, which ultimately led to its more widespread spread outside the country, with all its attendant consequences.
This view is held by the American CIA, pointing out that the Underground Government and itself, at least initially, had little idea of the scale of the epidemic.
"According to [CIA] agents, officials from the province of Hubei, where the coronavirus outbreak occurred, as well as from other regions of China, deliberately underestimated the number of infected and dead for fear of punishment if the center decides they are not coping," the BBC reports citing CIA sources.
- But it is impossible to establish the true picture of the beginning of the epidemic not only because of this, but also because there were no uniform standards of testing and diagnosis in the first weeks. "
Release the mouse from attack!
In any case, scientists have yet to agree on the origin of COVID-19, and will be able to determine its source only if they isolate a living virus among "suspected" species.
Genetic data show that COVID-19 is a close relative of other CoVs found in Chinese horseshoe bat populations.
For the time being, the most plausible version is that COVID-19 actually originated in bats, but was transmitted not directly to humans, but through an intermediary species that is nominated by a representative of the pangolins or snakes.
For example, Professor Stephen Turner, head of the Department of Microbiology at the University of Melbourne, has stated that he doubts the validity of the theory of direct human-to-mouse transmission.
However, he is inclined to believe that COVID-19 is a bat species.
Professor Stanley Perlman, a leading immunologist from the University of Iowa and an expert on previous outbreaks of animal-induced coronavirus, says he rather shares this view, and the mediator may have been more than one.
I suspect that any evolution of [the virus] occurred in an intermediate animal, if it was.
In the three months of the pandemic, there has been no significant change in the virus, which shows that the virus is well adapted to human beings. "- also
told
Him.
"The current distribution of COVID-19 is the result of human-to-human transmission," says representatives of the World Organization of Animals Health.
There is no evidence to date that animals play a significant role in the spread of the disease.
There is therefore no reason to take measures against animals that could endanger their welfare. "
Andrew Cunningham, professor of wildlife epidemiology at the Zoological Society of London, believes that "the main causes of the spread of zoonoses from bats or other wild species have almost always been human behavior."
In his view, the disappearance of bats would not be a salvation for humanity, but rather, "Understanding how bats deal with these pathogens can teach us how to deal with them if they spread to humans."
By the way, scientists did have time to test a new coronavirus on bats themselves.
It turned out that although its gene is close to the virus genes that bats have, COVID-19 is not somehow transmitted from one bat to another: "Egyptian fruit bats were also infected in laboratory conditions, but had no signs of disease or ability to effectively transmit infection to other bats."
From this, researchers conclude: "There is currently no evidence that pilots play a role in the distribution of COVID-19."
"Tens of thousands of viruses are waiting to be discovered," says Cunningham.
What we really need to do is to understand where the critical control points are for the spread of zoonoses from the wild, and to prevent this from happening in these places.
This will be the most cost-effective way to protect people.
The final lesson is that damage to the planet can lead to more immediate and serious damage to man than we expected. "