MANIPULATION: Israeli doctors said it was dangerous to wear masks in the street
Facebook partnership facebook check
A publication on a statement by Israeli doctors on the danger of wearing masks is being circulated online.
This "news" is published on various sites since the beginning of April and is issued every time as current.
We will comment on changed emphasis and irrelevant information.
Issue 1.
Israeli doctors stated that wearing masks in the street was dangerous.
There are many Israeli doctors, and each may have a position.
On the other hand, the WHO recommendations of 6 April noted that the wearing of masks by healthy people in public places could help to reduce transmission during the "pre-asymptomatic" stage of the disease.
At the same time, WHO has noted the risks of self-infection through improper use of masks, developing respiratory problems, false sense of safety, and hence non-compliance with social distance and hygiene rules.
Therefore, wearing masks, subject to the relevant regulations for their use, is not dangerous.
Since April 12, the wearing of a mask is mandatory when leaving the house in Israel.
Issue 2.
The Israeli organization Midaat believes that wearing masks can do more harm than good.
This statement was indeed made by the organization.
However, the main message of the statement is not about the harm of wearing masks as such, but that wearing masks can cause people to feel safe and ignore social distance and hygiene rules.
Similar risks have been warned by WHO.
Issue 3.
Healthy people are advised to wear masks only when caring for COVID-19 patients.
This was valid until 5 June 2020.
On 5 June, WHO updated its recommendations on the wearing of masks.
For example, masks should be worn to protect healthy people (when in contact with potentially infected people) as well as infected people (to prevent further transmission).
In public places, it is recommended to wear non-medical masks (fabric masks).
Warning
The authors do not work, consult, own shares or receive funding from a company or organization that would benefit from this article, nor are they related in any way to them.