Can coronavirus spread to shoes?
Photo source: Getty
Coronavirus is highly contagious and can stay on the surface for a long time.
That's why we avoid touching door handles, handrails and buttons in elevators and often my hand.
But what about our shoes?
We remove our top clothes immediately after entering the room and wash regularly.
Thus, we can significantly reduce the risk of contamination.
Experts claim that viruses can remain on the surface for several days.
Does this mean that coronavirus can spread to shoes?
Opinions on the subject were divided.
Photo source: iStock
Can coronavirus spread to shoes?
If clothes can carry coronavirus, can shoes carry coronavirus?
We walk around them in the shop, we stand in public transport.
They can potentially be in contact with dangerous pathogens that we will later bring to our homes.
Do you remember how in hospitals the obligation should be put on the shoes of bras?
Maybe it's not just about the dirt, but about bringing the microbes into the room?
What is the situation with shoes and are they a potential source of infection?
Photo source: iStock
Walter Riccardi of WHO recommends removing the top clothes and shoes before entering the house and leaving them there.
There is a risk that the virus will hit our shoes.
It is better to take more precautions than regret later.
Our knowledge of coronaviruses is still very limited.
As a precaution, Rickcardi advises that footwear be considered a potential source of infection.
Photo source: iStock
Carol Winner, a public health specialist, explains that there is no evidence that the shoes pose a risk of infection.
They 're the furthest from the face, and the likelihood that microbes will reach our mouths or our noses is negligible.
The expert believes that frequent and thorough hand washing is more important.
Photo source: iStock
And as you go back to the shoes, you have to remember that the most contaminated part is the soles.
They should be washed regularly with warm water and detergent.
And you definitely shouldn't wear shoes around the house.
Then we spread dirt and dangerous microbes.
Not all shoes can be thoroughly washed and disinfected.
Not without damaging her.
However, there is a way to protect yourself from any infection.
It is recommended to wear different shoes every day.
Those who are worn once should be kept for a few days in a less crowded room or tightly wrapped in a bag.
The virus needs its host, and without it, it won't survive.
By dressing our shoes (but also, for example, clothes or bags) with such insulation, we minimize the risk of coronavirus infection.
Photo source: iStock
During quarantine, the apartment should be kept cleaner than usual, especially if a family member leaves the house.
However, there is no point in obsessing and decontaminating the sex after each return.
The probability of someone touching the floor with their hands is low.
If you don 't live with children, the situation changes a little bit, and it' s worth cleaning more often.