Covid-19 came naturally, but people helped spread it.
Image: marataliyoum.com
The new coronavirus was not created in the laboratory, but human activity, albeit indirectly, contributed to its emergence.
The French newspaper Le Figaro.
According to the publication, the "crazy theory" about the artificial nature of the virus, which has spread in the spiritualist circles, is based on an unfortunate coincidence: the center of the epidemic has become the city of Wuhan, where a specially protected laboratory for the study of coronavirus in bats is located.
Therefore, some quickly linked the event to the location of the event and began to claim that a virus was deliberately released into the environment or that a researcher accidentally caught it and infected the population.
U.S. Senator Tom Cotton promoted this absurd idea on Fox News on February 16.
In response to his remarks, a Chinese Foreign Ministry official stated on Twitter that, on the contrary, the US army had introduced a new virus.
However, these speculations, as the article points out, are "utter nonsense": they do not stand up to any criticism.
In February, 27 scientists from around the world signed an open letter in the medical journal The Lancet condemning conspiracy theories about the "unnatural origin of the new coronavirus."
They assured that after analyzing the virus genome, researchers from various countries concluded that it "comes from the wild, like many other new pathogens."
All the work published in recent weeks shows that fairly similar versions of the virus are present in bats and to a lesser extent in pangolins.
Last week, the prestigious journal Nature Medicine published an article highlighting once again that there is absolutely no genetic evidence of human involvement in the virus.
Studies have shown that Covid-19 has a common ancestor and a similar virus in bats and pangolins, which are often victims of Chinese poachers because of its alleged medicinal value.
According to Meriadag Le Gui, a virologist and ecologist from the universities of Kang and Ruan, scientists hope to find an intermediate species of coronavirus - a direct precursor to SARS-CoV-2 - in southern China from animals bred in large numbers or caught in the wild for human consumption.
Viruses don't need us.
That is, it is necessary as a carrier to be able to capture the new environment, but not as an engineer, "Le Gui stressed.
Furthermore, the virus did not wait for the construction of modern laboratories to infect humans: it was aided by natural selection and millions of years of evolution.
Some have left their imprint forever: an important part of human DNA (about 8%) consists of viral genetic sequences that control even the fixation of the embryo into the uterus.
Thus, as Meriadag Le Gui suggests, the integrated virus may be the basis of one of the most important biological characteristics of mammals, proving that interaction with viruses does not always result in human death.
In the case of problematic viruses, they are almost always transmitted by animals: in the case of Ebola, they were chimpanzees and gorillas infected with flying mice, and the measles virus was the result of an adaptation of the rinderpest virus to humans at the time of domestication several thousand years ago.
The SARS-CoV coronavirus, which appeared in China in 2002 and triggered a large-scale epidemic, was originally present in a species of bat that infected civettes - mammals resembling both a small panther and a badger.
According to the Meriadag Le Gui, as a result of industrial development in the Pearl River Delta in Guangdong Province in southern China, the production of civette (intermediate medium) has increased 50 times over the years.
They were bought alive in the back room of restaurants with traditional cuisine, and so the virus got to the person.
Since the SARS epidemic in 2002, all coronavirus specialists have expected a new human virus to appear in the medium term because of the high evolutionary capacity of such viruses.
The Chinese Market.
Image: brkng.news
According to Bruno Coutar, a researcher of new infectious diseases at the University of Aix-Marseille, these viruses exchange material in bats that serve as bioreactors.
Meriadag Le Gui points out that such exchange in living organisms is much more effective than using scientists in laboratories.
In addition, evolution can occur as a result of mutation: within a few hours, one virus produces billions of copies, some of which are slightly different from the original.
Kutar explains that if such changes are favorable to survival, they will settle in the virus population and give it the ability to infect new carriers.
However, in order to cross the species barrier, the carrier animal must have repeated contact with the future host, in this case the human.
As Eric Lórua, a leading researcher at the Institute for Development Research (IRD) and a member of the Medical Academy, points out, frequent contact between two species that previously did not have it requires a combination of factors.
In his view, this may be related to the cultivation and consumption of certain animals, deforestation, or the development of cities in place of the natural environment.
In conclusion, Le Figaro once again points out that Covid-19 was not created by man, but its activities indirectly influenced the emergence of the new coronavirus.
Recall that at the beginning of February, 64% of EADaily readers who participated in the poll "Why did a new coronavirus appear in China?
"indicated that this is" a special development of a biolaboratory. "
24% of respondents chose the option "Eat what happened and then wonder."
12% consider the emergence of a new coronavirus in China to be a common mutation.