Experts described the dangers of wearing masks
Girls on Gogol Street in Novosibirsk.
MOSCOW, 23 Mar - PRIM.
Since the beginning of the pandemic, masks have been firmly embedded in our daily lives.
As a result, many questions and concerns arose: whether it is harmful to wear a mask constantly, whether it can be reused, whether masks are effective in protecting against viruses, and what to choose to minimize harm.
In Roskilde, they explained the fears and rules of using masks.
MAIN HAZARDS IN THE NEW MASK AND HOW TO SAVE THEM.
The expert told me if it makes sense to erase the unwashed masks
The presence of a valve on the mask can be a risk
A study by Rosqualité found that one of the FFP2 respirators with a valve showed the worst results in viral permeability: it only delays slightly more than 2% of viruses.
Thus, valve masks are not recommended for two reasons: they do not protect both the surrounding and the wearer.
Choose reliable, effective masks without a valve.
Bacteria can accumulate on the mask.
If you wear a mask for a long time, you can accumulate fungi and bacteria that we breathe out with air.
In addition, during wear the mask becomes wet from breathing and saliva, which reduces its effectiveness in protection.
Take with you several spare masks so that wet can be replaced with dry.
The mask may cause allergy or irritation
If you buy a mask made of unsafe materials, it can cause an allergy that irritates the mucous or skin, and with filtered air you will inhale unsafe chemicals.
Do not buy masks in unverified places.
Medical masks are guaranteed not to cause annoyance if there is no individual intolerance.
Reuse of a disposable mask
If you repeatedly use a disposable mask, keep it in a pocket or bag with other things, remove it and put it on with unclean hands, it will soon become a source of potentially dangerous bacteria.
One-off masks must be removed after being worn within 2 hours.
Change your masks regularly to avoid this.
THE POLISH MASK FOR THE PROTECTION OF THE COVID-19
The infector told me when it would be possible to cancel the massage
According to Rosqualité's research, masks do act as a barrier to the spread of bacteria.
Some of the studies showed a high level of bacterial protection.
Of course, no mask guarantees 100% protection against viruses, but the most effective of them still retain a certain number - up to 56.2% of viruses (a hygienic face mask).
Masks can therefore only be used in combination with social distance and other preventive measures.
If the mask is chosen correctly, all potential harm during a pandemic can be minimized, and the benefits of wearing the mask are obvious: it will help filter bacteria and viruses out of the air, protecting both the wearer and the others.
However, other preventive measures need to be taken, ranging from careful hand washing to keeping a social distance.