The coronavirus has found a new medium - and this is pangolin.
In Asia, it 's used as a cancer medicine.
Chinese researchers have found other possible causes of coronavirus infection.
These are cute, scaly pangolin animals that Asians actively (and illegally) carry and then make exotic foods and medicines - including from cancer and asthma.
On Friday, February 7, the South China Agricultural University website announced an important opening statement.
The university joined forces with the agricultural laboratory and found that pangolin could become an intermediate host for the new coronavirus.
The main reason for the origin is still thought to be bats, but scientists are looking for a second carrier, because the Chinese coronavirus is a hybrid (and, according to one version, its vectors may have been snakes).
It 's a scaly mammal.
Its name comes from the Malay word pengguling, which means "winding into a ball."
The animal looks a bit like an armadillo.
According to the Daily Mail, scientists have investigated over a thousand wild animals and found that the genome sequences of viruses found on pangolins are 99 percent identical to those found in patients with coronavirus.
The university website states:
This latest discovery will be of great importance in preventing and controlling the origin of the new coronavirus.
Pangolins are widely distributed in the Chinese and Vietnamese markets.
It is the most common animal on the planet.
According to the International Union for Conservation of Nature, more than a million pangolins have been removed from the forests of Asia and Africa in the past decade.
It is used in traditional medicine.
Znanharis believe that she can treat cancer and asthma, as well as stimulate lactation in women.
Scientists disagree.
Chewable bags confiscated in Singapore
The meat is sold on the black market.
China now maintains an interim ban on trade in wildlife.
But conservationists have long accused the country of allowing the shadow trade of rare animals for food or medicine.
Several species of pangolin are endangered.
According to the latest WHO data, 28,276 people are now infected with coronavirus (28,060 in China).
The disease has been recorded in 28 countries and territories around the world, killing 638 people, according to the BCRC.
One of the most tragic deaths from coronavirus was the death of a doctor who was among the first to warn of its outbreak.
He was posthumously connected to a life-support device to convince the media, but it didn't work.....?...
The new epidemic also causes cholera.
The director of the "First Channel" Kirill Kleymyonov told on the air such a wild theory of the origin of the coronavirus, which then had to prove its adequacy.