Where did the coronavirus come from?
People in many countries today wonder where coronavirus came from, and particularly its COVID-19 variant........
To answer this question correctly, let us briefly consider the biological nature of the origin of the phenomenon.
Content
Bacteria and viruses are the main infectious agents
The human body is affected by various biological agents that cause infectious diseases - prions, protozoans, fungi, parasites, bacteria and, among others, viruses.
The most common and at the same time severe diseases are those caused by the kingdoms of bacteria and viruses.
Respiratory infections and respiratory diseases - their "work."
Bacteria are single-celled living organisms, but without a nucleus, they have all the characteristics of living organisms.
Therefore, bacteria can be easily combated: using ultraviolet, sterilization, antibiotics and antiseptics, hot steam treatment.
Viruses are not cells, but are only reproduced inside living cells.
Before entering living cells, they are called virions, show no signs of life, and hover in the environment, waiting to get inside.
They are smaller in size than bacteria and can only be seen in an electron microscope.
They have heredity and variability (mutation and evolution), and are capable of self-reproduction, making it difficult to control them.
There are currently over 6,000 described strains, although experts estimate that there are more than 100 million..
So far, scientists don 't know exactly how viruses came into being, and they' re just making hypotheses.
The virus control scheme is as follows:
The virus enters a living organism - > the organism has an immune response - > the infection is eliminated.
The key here is how the immune response happens.
First, the body protects the innate immunity - the cells recognize and respond to the infection.
However, they react in the most general non-specific way, the same way to all viruses.
Therefore, innate immunity does not provide long-term and lasting protection.
Acquired immunity then enters the fight.
There are two types: cellular and cellular.
The first step in the struggle is the development of human immunity: specific antibodies (IgM and IgG) are formed against the virus - they bind to it and make it harmless.
Cell immunity, or more precisely immune cells (T-lymphocytes), recognizes and kills virus-infected cells of the body, begins the formation of virus-specific T-lymphocytes (macrophages), as well as the production of interferon - a hormone, a response to its presence.
In the end, this hormone stops the process because it blocks the formation of new viruses by infected cells, killing them and their close neighbors.
Unfortunately, the immune response is not against all viruses.
HIV, rabies, and oncoviruses, for various reasons, easily bypass the immune response, so the development of drugs against them is actively underway around the world.
Modern medicine can best combat infection through vaccination and antiviral drugs.
Vaccines help to create active acquired immunity against a specific disease caused by a particular virus.
That is why vaccines, such as measles or influenza, are important.
Antiviral drugs selectively affect virus replication.
Vaccines and antiviral drugs against COVID-19 coronavirus are currently being actively developed.
What kinds of coronaviruses exist
Coronavirus is a family of viruses that includes 40 species, seven of which affect humans.
It was first published in 1965.
It became widely known in 2002-2003, when China reported an outbreak of SARS, or severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS).
The SARS-CoV coronavirus was found in 8,098 people and killed 775.
It is believed that the source of the infection was bats.
The second worldwide breakthrough occurred in 2012, when the MERS-CoV virus, which caused Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS) in Saudi Arabia, appeared.
According to strain analyses, the natural reservoir of the virus is the populations of bats.
By the summer of 2015, it had been detected in 23 countries (1,154 people) and had caused 431 deaths.
To date, up to a dozen cases of disease caused by the virus have been recorded annually, with a total of 2,500 cases recorded.
In both cases, coronavirus caused severe inflammatory respiratory disease, respiratory viral infections, and no specific treatment was given as it was not developed (only symptomatic).
It is a natural reservoir for animals.
Vaccines were not developed as a result of epidemics.
COVID-19 family
The last appearance of COVID-19 occurred in December 2019.
In the Chinese city of Wuhan, people became ill with pneumonia.
The cause was a new SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus, previously known as 2019-nCoV.
Within three months, the new coronavirus spread around the world, taking on the character of a pandemic...............
But where did the infection come from and how did COVID-19 even come from?
What Happened at the Chinese Market in Wuhan
It is believed that the COVID-19 coronavirus first appeared on the market in Wuhan.
It sells fish, seafood, and illegal trade in wildlife, including surfers, birds, rabbits, bats and snakes.
Scientists have shown that COVID-19 can be transmitted from animal to human, so the starting point of the pandemic is considered to be the first infected people - mainly owners of commercial tents from the seafood market who have been infected by contact with animals.
Coronavirus was originally derived from bats, as evidenced by a study by the Ochnian virologists, who found that the genetic makeup of the new coronavirus was 96% identical to that found in bats.
The Wuhan market was closed for inspection and cleaning on January 1, 2020, but by then Covid-19 had already begun to circulate throughout the country.
How the new disease was transmitted to man
Given that China is characterized by an extremely high population density, and that the Chinese are characterized by a low hygiene culture, specific gastronomic preferences, and a high level of social contact, it is not surprising that Chinese coronavirus spread rapidly across Wuhan and then across the globe.
First by air-droppings and by eating raw bat meat among traders and buyers, and then to their relatives, acquaintances and occasional contacts.
Rumors that someone created or produced Covid-19
According to the official version of the virus, it is natural and has animal origin.
The natural reservoir for COVID-19 is the animal bats.
It is sometimes mentioned that the intermediate hosts are pangolins, small mammals covered with scales, to which special treatment is given in China, who eat them and prepare medicines.
Separately, the two previous epidemics - SARS and MERS - seem to have been insufficiently destructive, as the world community has been so reluctant to develop a vaccine that it has not yet been established.
There is also the impact of the fact that these epidemics were not that global.
In fact, China's new coronavirus posed a serious challenge to the global health system.
Among conspiracy theories and conspiracy theories, ideas about the artificial nature of the COVID-19 coronavirus become popular, and the main question then remains "who created it" and "why created the coronavirus."
There are rumours on the network that the virus has emerged from a secret laboratory in the city of Wuhan, where biological weapons have been developed.
Indeed, Uhani has the Institute of Virology (http: / / english.whiov.cas.cn /), which has a laboratory with the fourth (highest) level of biosafety.
However, there is no evidence of leaks other than fake leaks.
Recognizing the official legend, the US and Israel have already filed the first $20.1 trillion claims against China for damages.
In response to the question - where did the coronavirus epidemic come from, the disinformers also appeal that it is an American / Russian / Zionist biological weapon.
In April, the Investigation Committee of Russia even opened a criminal case for spreading false information on social media that COVID-19 was allegedly created in Russia.
Another crazy idea about who produced the coronavirus was the possible involvement of US scientists: the pentagon allegedly modified it from a Chinese bat in 2015, which could penetrate human cells without an intermediate animal.
However, the current deplorable morbidity and mortality statistics in that country suggest otherwise.
The disinformation associated with the pandemic also contains allegations that the virus is a population control tool or the result of a spy operation.
Religious and alarmist concepts view coronavirus as a punishment from God, a test from God.
For example, Jerome Makarios considers the pandemic to be a reason for God.
Muslims have a special view of the situation.
An imam from Gaza stated that
The epidemic is God's weapon, and the virus is one of his soldiers.
Iraqi Shia cleric Muqtada al-Sadr called same-sex marriage the cause of the Covid-19 pandemic.
The Archbishop of Kazan called the coronavirus an "anti-church campaign."
There are also theories that the strain is not new, and governments in influential countries knew about coronavirus long before the pandemic began.
The effect of 5G cell towers on coronavirus distribution is absurd.
Finally, there are separate ideas about the conspiracy of pharmaceutical companies.
Note that there are currently no effective antiviral drugs and vaccines against COVID-19.
All these conspiracy theories are false, misleading.
Conclusion
In response to the question of where the coronavirus really came from, we stand by the positions of official science, the governments of world powers and international health organizations:
COVID-19 originated in China in 2020 through contact with infected mammals, flying mice, and then rapidly spread by aerial droppings throughout the city and then the world.
Where coronavirus really came from, we 'll know in the near future, when the vaccine is ready, and the scientific community and just the enthusiasts will recover from the shock and be safe to conduct the most thorough investigation.