The RPC called the wearing of masks in temples a Christian duty.
Priestess in Kazan Icon of the Mother of God Cathedral on Red Square in Moscow
Moscow, 6 Jan. - RIA News.
In the sense of illness and other signs of illness, believers should stay at home, in particular not to attend Christmas services, also in temples they must wear masks, as this can protect against illness of fellow believers, said RIA News of the Deputy Head of the Synodal Department of the RPC on Relations of the Church with Society and Media Vakhtang Kipshidze.
For Orthodox believers who are going to pray at the Christmas service, it is natural to observe a massage regime and social distance, as this is the only means not to expose fellow believers to the risk of contamination.
It is a Christian imperative to take care of the health of others.
Despite criticism about the effectiveness of masks, even if there is a small chance that masks can protect someone, this opportunity must be taken, "Kipshidze said.
He noted that the clergy and clergy "will do everything possible to minimize the risk of contamination of the participants in the worship."
The RPC also called for everyone who feels sick to stay at home for Christmas.
Signs of illness are an obstacle to participation in worship.
Those who feel signs of disease - fever, cough, malaise - can benefit from the live broadcast of the service, "concluded the agency's interlocutor.
Earlier on Wednesday Patriarch of Moscow and All Russia Kirill called stupid people who ignore the epidemic and do not follow medical prescriptions, including not wearing masks, and compared such people to unbelievers.
He noted that the phenomenon of infidelity "is present and always dangerous."
According to the patriarch, it is "deadly" when people do not believe in God, "just as dangerous today if people do not believe in the spread of infection and do not protect themselves from that infection."
And the deputy manager of the affairs of the Moscow Patriarchate Bishop Zelenograd Savva (Tutunov) said RIA Novosti that priests should wear a mask during confession and kneeling of believers.
Due to the epidemic, the Russian Orthodox Church has had restrictions imposed as early as spring 2020.
Priests and temple officials (as well as laymen) were required to wear masks if they were in contact with the congregation, including during confession.
It is recommended that believers "prepare a list of sins committed on paper and submit it to the priest."
Also, in the temples, the spoon for the communion should be washed with a dissolving cloth after each communion, the ointment should be given in disposable cups, and the anointing should be done with disposable wax sticks.
It is still not possible to kiss the cup, cross and hand, icons, cross and gospel must be washed regularly with disinfectant.
If a priest does not comply with sanitary measures in a particular temple, the priests advise to appeal to the abbot, and if he does not comply, to the archbishop.
On January 7 in Russian Orthodox as well as some local Orthodox churches, Eastern Rite Catholics and Protestants adhering to the Julian calendar will meet Christmas.
On the eve of January 6, the church celebrates Christmas Eve or on the eve of the Nativity.
In the temples on this day there are festive services: in the morning - Imperial hours and liturgy of Basil the Great, in the evening - all-night vigil, which passes into the night liturgy of John Zlatoust.
On the morning of 7 January, one or more (early and late) festive liturgies are also served in the temples.