COVID-19: How Bill Gates was attacked by conspiracy theorists
In February, the online theory that billionaire Bill Gates is linked to the COVID-19 coronavirus pandemic and even uses it to seize control of humanity became popular.
Such theories are easily created and accepted by people who are under stress and have lost a sense of internal control, experts explain
What happened.
On January 21, a Twitter user associated with the conspiracy community QAnon wrote that Bill Gates knew in advance of the COVID-19 pandemic.
The author of the tweet drew his conclusion from the fact that the British Pearbright Institute, funded by the Bill Gates and his wife Melinda Foundation, owned a patent that protected the development of a weakened form of coronavirus that could potentially be used as a vaccine for the prevention of respiratory diseases in birds and other animals.
Social media users picked up this conclusion, and the topic even reached Russian state channels.
After that, an old TED Talks video where Gates talks about the threat of a new virus began to be distributed by vaccine opponents.
In a few weeks, it gained 25 million views.
The situation was further exacerbated by Gates' March 31 column in The Washington Post, in which he claimed that the US had missed the opportunity to contain the coronavirus.
What a scale campaign.
According to Zignal Labs, a media analyst, misinformation about Gates' involvement in the creation and distribution of the coronavirus is now the most popular of all false theories about COVID-19.
Media analysts counted about 16,000 Facebook posts that commented and chanted almost 900,000 times.
On YouTube, the 10 most popular videos disseminating information about Gates' and COVID-19's connections were viewed 10 million times in March and April.
Between February and April, the theory was mentioned 1.2 million times on social media and television.
As a result, Bill Gates and coronavirus "defeated" the theory that people are victims of COVID-19 due to 5G radio waves.
What was it really about?
In April 2015, when the Ebola epidemic was raging in Africa, Bill Gates gave a TED Talk.
When I was a child, we all feared nuclear war, kept cans and water in the basement of houses.
But the world is now facing the threat of a serious virus that could take the lives of more than 10 million people around the world, "Gates said.
He noted that many investments were directed towards the containment of nuclear weapons, but should be invested in preventing potential epidemics.
We are not ready for global epidemics now.
There are no epidemiological associations trained by doctors, "Gates summarized.
Ebola, fortunately, did not spread by air, so it was localized in Africa.
But the next virus, warned by the billionaire, could be much more dangerous, it could be transmitted through the air, and infected people would have no sign of disease.
So Gates described with great precision the signs of the COVID-19 coronavirus infection that we 're seeing today.
QAnon.
The movement originated in October 2017, when a 4chan user, Q, who claimed to be a close adviser to Donald Trump, began to actively talk about what was supposedly the situation at the top of the US political elite.
For example, he wrote about the existence of a massive international scheme of child sexual exploitation involving US Democratic Party leaders and many American celebrities, which Trump is allegedly preparing to expose.
How did Bill Gates react?
"The human charge of creating a coronavirus sounds somewhat strange," said Bill Gates in an interview with CNN.
- I don't think there's a significant number of people who believe in.????????????
But there are people who want to look at the coronavirus through the lens of politics rather than science, and this can lead to strange views of a problem that cannot tell the truth or look at the real numbers rationally. "
As early as 2008, Gates retired from Microsoft's operations and focused on philanthropy.
Together with his wife Melinda, he is the head of the world's largest private charity, with a total of $46.8 billion as of 2018.
The organization 's work is aimed at improving the global health system, and has become particularly relevant in the context of the coronavirus pandemic - a businessman who has long been an advocate of the importance of universal immunization.
Today, the fund sponsors seven of the most promising companies developing the COVID-19 vaccine, and has allocated $10 million to help health workers in China and Africa.
But the billionaire himself does not believe that vaccine production will begin this year.
He assumed that the process would only be launched in a year or two.
Why people believe in conspiracy theories.
The emergence of conspiracy theory - the theory of a powerful external enemy - is linked at the psychological level with a sense of internal control, says senior researcher of the School of Current Humanitarian Studies Ion RANHIGS Alexander Archipov.
A person in a sober mind understands that there are events in the world that he can control and that he cannot control.
In a calm state, people are able to assess their abilities adequately, and events are perceived soberly.
But in a stress situation, if the sense of internal control decreases, the response of the defence is activated.
This creates an image of an external enemy who controls everything.
This practice helps restore a sense of internal control.
However, the tendency to believe in conspiracy theory is not related in any way to the level of education, age or gender, but is more likely to be believed by groups of people who feel deprived of their rights, "Arkhipov explains.
According to her, a person usually wants an explanation of why an event occurs, especially when it turns his or her life around.
Scientific information, including medical information, answers very poorly the question of why a new unknown threat has emerged and how to respond to it.
Conceptual theories involving the external enemy provide clear explanations of who is to blame (Bill Gates, Donald Trump, Vladimir Putin, doctors) and what to do (not comply with quarantine, avoid tests, because it is a pretext to chip).
How to Fight Phoenix.
World practice has come up with two ways of fighting, says Archipov.
The first is fines or criminal penalties, but this method works poorly and is very rarely applied.
In Russia, however, ordinary women who repeat shop rumors are fined for spreading "knowingly false information," but not state channels and fashion bloggers, notes the expert.
The second way is to improve media literacy, first-hand skills courses, and to create websites that quickly analyze fake stories and rumors so that a person can quickly check a chat message.