As Lugar's laboratory in Georgia fights coronavirus and Russian propaganda
Timely and mass testing is the key to controlling the epidemiological situation in the country.
In Georgia, Lugar's laboratory, built with American money, conducts 24-hour coronavirus testing.
To date, 214 cases of infection and 3 deaths have been recorded in Georgia.
Located on the outskirts of Tbilisi, the Richard Lugar Research Centre helps the country cope with the spread of coronavirus.
Every day, 24 hours a day, new samples of COVID-19 tests are studied there.
Recently, the US taxpayer-funded laboratory has become the focus of Georgian media attention.
However, in the years before the pandemic, it had inevitably attracted attention for another reason: as a target of the Russian disinformation campaign.
In January, the laboratory responded quickly and focused on testing coronavirus.
When Russian and Chinese state media began to say that coronavirus was an American bioweapon, the Russian television channel REN TV went even further: it accused the Richard Lugar Center of creating a strain of the virus.
Military expert Igor Nikulin stated in a Channel report: "This could be to the benefit of American corporations that develop such new diseases just for profit."
A reporter for REN TV, with an audience of 115 million, said that the laboratory of the Richard Lugar Center could be a potential source of the virus.
It's just propaganda.
What can we do about it?
, "said director of the laboratory Paat Imnadze in an interview with Coda Story.
He added that due to the outbreak of coronavirus, the attitude of Georgians to the research centre could change dramatically.
"It is more important for me that the majority of our population understand why we need this laboratory," Imnadze adds.
Russian military expert Igor Nikulin was one of the first Kremlin figures to put forward a conspiracy theory linking a new strain of the virus to the US military.
But, despite the fact that coronavirus has reached Russia in these months, deniers of the disease and conspiracy theorists still exist.
During a speech at the Moscow City Duma, Nikolai Zubrylin, Chairman of the Commission for Public Associations and Religious Organizations, said during his speech: "Where did the virus come from?
They think it's from the lab.
American laboratories are now located near our borders - in Georgia, Moldova and two in Ukraine. "
That is the view of many.
When we came to the lab, all the staff were busy testing samples on COVID-19.
This is not the first time journalists have come to us.
One day representatives of several Russian television channels came to us, "recalls Pat Imnadze, looking through the window to work laboratory workers.
Of course, most of them never showed.
And if they did, it was exactly the opposite of what we were telling them. "
Asked how he felt about the constant attacks on the lab, director Paat Imnadze shook his shoulders.
It doesn't affect me.
But it affects people who believe in propaganda. "
It is not the first year that news of the work of the centre has been heard.
Coda had already written about Lugar's laboratory in 2018 in connection with a statement by the Russian Ministry of Defense that it was a secret US biological weapons project directed against Russia.
The pro-Kremlin media also spread information that the laboratory is a "seedbed of contagion," which carries out illegal testing on citizens of Georgia, as well as responsible for outbreaks of influenza, Ebola and Skripalei poisoning.
"It is obvious which country is the source of such misinformation," said Amiran Gamrekildze, head of the National Centre for Disease Control.
The US government built a $350 million laboratory in 2011 to reduce the spread of disease in the region, as well as to combat the deadly pathogens left by the Soviet Union's biological weapons program.
It was the high level of security and modern technology that made the laboratory an ideal target for Russian propaganda.
But recently the laboratory has become a center for testing for coronavirus in Georgia.
"To control the virus, results must be obtained as quickly as possible," said Paata Imnadze.
The technology we use here is unique to the region.
The laboratory also participates in international research on the behaviour of the virus.
At a time when the staff of the laboratory have advanced in the fight against coronavirus, the attitude of Georgian citizens towards them is clearly changing.
"There has always been a bias towards Lugar's laboratory," commented right-wing Georgian March leader Sandro Bregadze.
He was once one of the most vocal advocates of closing the lab: "Everything that is kept secret is suspicious.
When do they develop chemical or biological weapons? "
However, he added that his attitude towards the laboratory has now changed: "I think Lugar's laboratory plays a key role in the fight against coronavirus in Georgia.
I would like to thank them for their good work. "
At the time of writing, 214 cases of COVID-19 infection had been confirmed in Georgia.
It is hard to imagine that only a few hundred kilometers away is Iran infected with the virus - 60,000 infected.
"We are responsible for what is happening and we are in isolation," said Ana Kasradze, head of the Emergency Response Laboratory.
- We hope to be able to keep the rate of morbidity low. "
Since 31 March, Georgia has been declared a quarantine and curfew, and public transport has been temporarily suspended.
The World Health Organization is making clear how to reduce the spread of the virus.
"We have a simple message for all countries: test, test, test," said WHO Director General Tedros Adan Gebreisus.
Translated by Karina Levitina
Supported by Mediaset