The oral suppressant can protect against COVID-19 by destroying the external fat layer that binds the virus to human cells.
The oral blocker has the potential to protect a person from COVID-19 infection by killing coronavirus before it can infect human cells, says the new report.
Coronaviruses are classified as "enveloped viruses," meaning that they are covered with a fat layer that is vulnerable to exposure to certain chemicals.
An international team of researchers believes that a mouthwash can destroy the outer layer or 'shell' of the virus, preventing it from multiplying in the mouth and throat, "reports the Daily Mail.
"According to scientists, there is an urgent need to test the efficacy of mouthwash fluids in clinical trials, although there is currently no clinical evidence that they will succeed," the article states.
The authors of the study do not claim that commercially available oral washers prevent COVID-19, but further studies of the chemicals contained in them may be useful.
The authors of the study, led by Cardiff University, wrote in Function that oral rinsers are "an understudied area of basic clinical needs."
The findings of the team of scientists are supported by virologists, lipid specialists and health experts from the Faculty of Medicine of Cardiff University, as well as the universities of Nottingham, Colorado, Ottawa, Barcelona and the Cambridge Institute of Babreham.
"The safe use of mouthwashers - as well as throat bandages - has not yet been considered by the UK public health authorities," said the lead author, Professor O'Donnell, a director of the Cardiff University Institute for Systems Studies on Immunity.
- In laboratory experiments and limited clinical trials, it has been shown that some mouthwashers contain well-known virulicide ingredients that effectively act on the lipids of similar enveloped viruses. "
What we don 't know yet is whether existing washers are active for the SARS-CoV-2 lipid membrane.
Our literature review shows that there is an urgent need for research to determine its potential for use against this new virus, "he added.
"(...) Ingredients of dental washers, including chlorhexidine, cetylpyridine chloride, hydrogen peroxide and povidone iodine, have the potential to prevent infection and some of them" deserve clinical evaluation, "the researchers say.
In particular, these chemicals may break the outer lipid membrane of some viruses.
The lipid envelope helps some viruses, including coronaviruses, to attach to human cells, bypassing the host's immune system.
Specific spindle proteins called "glycoproteins" on the surface of the viral envelope are identified and attached to receptor sites on the host cell membrane, opening the way for infection.
Chemicals in washers have the potential to alter the ability of glycoproteins to interact with receptors in human cells, "explains the publication.
The researchers stressed that so far there has been no discussion of the potential role of fat membrane damage as a possible way to decontaminate the virus.
Lipid lining does not change when viruses mutate, which means that mouthwashers can still work against any new strains of coronavirus emerging during the current pandemic, "the publication notes.
WHO has previously refuted the suggestion that mouthwash fluid may prevent the infection of SARS CoV-2, a coronavirus that causes COVID-19.
Some brand washers can destroy certain microbes in saliva in the mouth for a few minutes.
However, this does not mean that they protect you from 2019-nCov contamination, "said WHO.
(...) Listerine, one of the largest brands producing mouthwash products, reports on its website that none of its products have been tested for any strains of coronavirus.
(...) Ordinary mouth washers contain the same key ingredient as coronavirus killing hand sanitizers - alcohol.
However, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the U.S. public health agency, recommends a hand sanitizer containing at least 60% alcohol.
(...) WHO also stresses that the consumption of pure alcohol, along with methanol or bleach, is incredibly dangerous.
These substances do not prevent or cure COVID-19 and can lead to disability and death (...), "writes the Daily Mail.