Will coronavirus leave Europe in 2021?
2021 is going to be a coronavirus, but we can control it.
This was announced at the first press conference this year by WHO / Europe Director Hans Kluge.
He spoke to Russian-speaking journalists about the current situation in the region, explained the features of the new COVID-19 variants and reported on cooperation with Russia.
"We were prepared that the beginning of this year would not be easy, and so it proved to be," the Director of WHO / Europe, Dr. Hans Kluge, began a press conference.
In his words, there has been a "tipping point" in the pandemic, where science and technology, with the right policies, "must come together and defeat a dangerous and insidious virus."
The virus is not yet delivered.
Kluge reported that in 2020, more than 26 million confirmed cases of COVID-19 and more than 580,000 deaths due to the virus were reported in the WHO European region.
In the last seven days of the new year, the region has recorded 1 million 800,000 cases of infection.
More than 280 million people in the WHO European region met New Year in full national quarantine conditions, and a number of other countries announced partial quarantine last week.
The region continues to have very high rates of infection.
We were prepared for the beginning of this year to be difficult, and it proved to be.
Dr. Kluge called for constant vigilance - even where there are signs of stabilization or even decline in morbidity.
According to him, it is still difficult to assess the consequences of holidays when many fail to observe the necessary precautions, including physical distance and masks.
During the winter holidays, fewer tests are likely to have been carried out, so the epidemiological data available to date may be incomplete.
Stamps - new, measures - same
The virus itself is creating new complications: 25 countries in the WHO European region, including Russia, have already reported the discovery of a new British strain.
"I fully understand the concern about the possible consequences of the SARS-CoV-2 variant on our public health," said Dr. Kluge, but recalled that the available data show that mutations do not lead to a more severe course of disease and will not affect the efficacy of the vaccine.............
The new version, however, is much more contagious than the current one and is spreading more rapidly among the population.
This is certainly alarming and is likely to increase the burden on health.
But, as the experts of WHO stress, the protective measures against it are the same, well known to all of us: universal use of masks, restriction of mass events, physical distance and hand hygiene.
Plus effective and timely testing and tracking of contacts, adequate support for quarantine and isolation measures, and increased vaccination coverage.
"2021 will still be a year of coronavirus, but more predictable and verifiable," says the head of WHO / Europe.
The emergence of new diagnostic tools and, of course, vaccines gives hope for this.
According to WHO, 31 countries have so far launched COVID-19 vaccination campaigns in the European region.
Globally, 23.5 million doses of vaccines have already been introduced, but 95 per cent of them are in only 10 countries.
According to Dr. Kluge, WHO and its partners are doing their best to ensure that every country can obtain vaccines.
First and foremost, health workers must receive the vaccine.
While they account for an average of 3 per cent of the population, the proportion of medical personnel among the infected COVID-19 is between 14 per cent.
Russian vaccine
The press conference raised questions about the Russian Sputnik V vaccine, which has not yet been certified by WHO, but is already being used on a massive scale in Russia and a number of other countries.
According to Dr. Oleg Benesh, a WHO expert, "each country has the right... to decide on the use of a drug, including a vaccine, in an emergency situation on the basis of risk and benefit considerations."
He said that countries were not obliged to seek WHO approval.
2021 will continue to be the year of the coronavirus, but more predictable and verifiable
In doing so, Russia, with the support of WHO, is preparing an application, including the harmonization of all the required information.
Dr. Kluge added that he had recently met with the Ambassador of the Russian Federation, and on 22 January WHO representatives would meet with Russian partners to discuss the issue.
Hans Kluge stressed that WHO is interested in accelerating the process of certification of the Russian vaccine.
He also expressed his gratitude to Dr. Vladimir Dedkov of the St. Petersburg Research Institute of Epidemiology and Microbiology.
Pasteur, who was on a WHO delegation to China to investigate the nature of COVID-19.