COVID-19 Coronavirus
Russian ERP market
Coronavirus (CoV) is a large family of viruses that cause diseases ranging from common cold to more severe diseases such as Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS-CoV) and severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS-CoV).
New coronavirus (nCoV) is a new strain that has not previously been identified in humans.
On March 11, 2020, the World Health Organization announced the outbreak of COVID-19 coronavirus as a pandemic.
How can you become infected with coronavirus?
Security measures
Chronology of the fight against the virus
Where the virus came from
2021: WHO associates coronavirus with flying mice
In late March 2021, the World Health Organization (WHO) identified the most likely cause of COVID-19 coronavirus transmission from bats to humans via another animal.
This is reported in the final joint study by WHO and PRC experts.
It emphasizes that laboratory leaks are "highly unlikely."
In the opinion of researchers, the spread of the virus through cold chain foods is possible but unlikely.
The findings are largely based on a visit by a WHO team of international experts to the Chinese city of Wuhan, where COVID-19 was first discovered.
WHO linked COVID-19 to bats
It is noted that the closest relative of the coronavirus that caused the pandemic has been found in bats, but "the evolutionary distance between these bat viruses and SARS-CoV-2 is estimated to be several decades, so there is an intermediate link."
The report indicates that very similar viruses have been found in pangolins, but the infection is also common in minks and cats, so the vectors may also have been present.
The hypothesis that all the blame is leakage from the laboratory is highly unlikely... And this is not the hypothesis that needs further study in the search for the source of the virus, "said Peter Ben Embarek, WHO expert on zoonotic infections and food security, at a press conference following the mission in China.
The assumption that the virus could leak from the lab was voiced by former US President Donald Trump and former Secretary of State Mike Pompeo.
Trump claimed that the leak could have occurred because of the incompetence of Chinese scientists.
Pompeo referred to this as well, citing data that indicated that "it all started near the lab."
China has always rejected these assumptions.
Ben Embarek also stated that COVID-19 probably started to spread to bats in the first place, but that it is unlikely that the disease originated in Wuhan.
Coronavirus was in Italy as early as November 2019
In early December 2020, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) reported that COVID-19 coronavirus was circulating in Italy as early as late November 2019.
A new type of coronavirus was detected in a nasal smear taken in early December 2019 in Milan from a four-year-old child.
The results confirm that other studies suggest that the virus originated in Europe much earlier than it began to be detected on a massive scale.
Archives of blood samples showed that a child from the Milan area developed severe acute respiratory syndrome caused by coronavirus as early as early as December 2019, approximately three months before the first cases of COVID-19 were detected in the country.
The first symptoms, coughing and drowsiness, appeared on 21 November 2019, the same month he was brought to the emergency room, and a few days later the child had skin lesions that doctors mistakenly associated with measles.
CDC: Coronavirus COVID-19 was in Italy as early as September 2019
According to a report by researchers from the Milan Department of Biomedical Sciences, they performed a retrospective analysis of samples taken from the patient during the illness.
The boy was then given blood for the measles virus, but the result was negative.
A year later, COVID-19 had a positive result.
New data confirm the results of other studies.
According to these data, the outbreak of coronavirus infection in Italy began in late autumn 2019, rather than in late February, as was previously thought, when the first cases were detected in the northern Italian city of Codonio.
Another study, published in June 2020, found that the virus was present in Milan and Turin sewers as early as December 2019.
US: Zero patient is infected at a biolab in Wuhan.
WHO denies this
A new type of COVID-19 coronavirus originated in Wuhan Laboratory, its worker became a "zero patient," Fox News reported, citing sources on April 15, 2020.
The laboratory in Wuhan was built in 2017 as part of China's biosafety and virus research program.
Construction of a bio-laboratory in Wuhan was carried out as part of a program to establish a network of bio-laboratories (7 laboratories - institutes) throughout mainland China by 2025.
The National Biological Laboratory in Wuhan (Institute of Virology) was the first in mainland China to study most high-risk viral pathogens.
The laboratory in Wuhan has been certified as meeting the BSL-4 safety standards and criteria.
The first BSL-4 laboratory, for example in Japan, was built in 1981, but did not work with pathogens until 2015 due to an imperfect safety system.
The Uhan laboratory cost 300 million yuan (US $44 million) and construction began in 2003.
The laboratory was built in the wake of the global SARS epidemic.
Chinese virologists at the Wuhan laboratory specialized in the study of pathogens causing SARS, Ebola virus and other viral diseases.
The Chinese staff of the Uhan Laboratory specialized in Lyon, France.
The main objective of the laboratory in Wuhan was to study the protection of Chinese workers against viral diseases in Africa; to conduct a study on the protection and adaptation of viruses.
The laboratory focused on the study of viruses that are transmitted from animals to humans.
In particular, the laboratory conducted studies on monkeys.
As early as 2007, a team of researchers from Ouhani, together with an Australian laboratory, conducted research on SARS, SARS-like coronavirus and HIV-1.
They decided to create a pseudovirus that basically put SARS-like CoV in the HIV envelope.
And with this virus, they infected bats.
In early May 2020, the Daily Telegraph published a file collected by U.S., British, Canadian, Australian, and New Zealand intelligence agencies, according to which Shi Zhenli's group, working at Wuhan Virk Laboratory, specialized in the study of bat coronaviruses.
Shi Zhenli
And here 's a series of puzzling coincidences:
2013: The Shi Zhenli Group conducts a study of bat faecal samples in a cave in Yunnan Province.
96.2% of virus samples match SARS-CoV-2
2015: The group conducts experiments to synthesize SARS-like coronaviruses to prove that they can be transmitted from bats to humans.
March 2019: Shi Zhenli publishes the scientific paper "Bat Coronaviruses," which discusses their high potential and potential for human transmission.
Meanwhile, as early as 2017, international experts drew attention to the poor safety of Chinese laboratories.
In particular, they indicated that there were several major unauthorized leaks of SARS coronavirus from Chinese laboratories during 2014-2017.
In 2017, the University of Michigan and the University of Michigan published a report.
Nature, PDF.
On April 13, 2020, The Washington Post reported that US diplomats in China reportedly sent two diplomatic cables to Washington in 2018 after visiting the Wuhan Laboratory, expressing concern about the safety and professionalism of the laboratory's staff.
A telegram stated that ongoing work on coronavirus in bats and its potential transmission to humans posed a threat to the outbreak of a new SARS-type pandemic.
No action has been taken by the United States Department of State since these telegrams.
The Institute of Virology is 20 miles from the seafood market.
A laboratory employee accidentally contracted coronavirus from a bat in the laboratory and then distributed it to the residents of the city.
Later in February 2021, at a WHO press conference after four weeks of investigation into the origin of Covid-19 in China, it was announced that:
WHO experts have recognized that a version of coronavirus distribution due to laboratory leakage is unlikely, and will not be studied again...................
There is no evidence of coronavirus proliferation in Wuhan until December 2019.
Based on the available data, it is not possible to determine exactly how Covid-19 entered the Ochny market, where it was first discovered.
The source of Covid-19 in animals has not yet been determined.
Transmission from animal to human via an intermediate link is the most likely hypothesis of coronavirus origin.
China: First person to get infected by a bat directly or through another animal
COVID-19 is a zoonotic virus.
The dominant view among epidemiologists is that the source of the virus was bats.
And then the virus - either directly or through another animal - got to the human.
It has to be said that this transition happens very rarely, it happens with one million or even a billion viruses, and it has to meet many conditions.
However, if this happens, the further process is very active: the immunity of the next carrier is not adapted to the virus, it can be much more pathogenic, causing serious complications and even death.
It also reproduces rapidly.
It is most commonly found in animals.
They 're called that because they look like a crown on an electronic microphotograph or a cut.
This virus often causes a cold and is quite common in humans.
At an early stage, COVID-19 is believed to have contracted primarily from a zoonotic source in the wholesale seafood market in Hunan, China.
The intermediate between the mouse and human host COVID-19 has not yet been identified by the end of February 2020.
In March 2020, three projects are under way in China, which should provide accurate information on the exact origin of the outbreak in the near future.
These projects include early investigations of coronavirus infections in Wuhan during December 2019, separately from a sample from the Wholesale Seafood Market (Fish Market) in Hunan and other markets in that province, as well as research on the discovery of COVID-19 in various bats, reptiles and marine animals in southern provinces of China.
In the library of scientific papers on coronavirus published on the website of the National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI), a curious material was discovered that was published in the summer of 2019 by scientists from the South Korean University of Halima, the Shanghai Fudan University and the International Islamic University of Malaysia.
The most interesting part of the report is:
In recent decades, we have seen several epidemics of respiratory infections from new viruses that have come from animals.
Infectious diseases, including SARS-CoV coronavirus, Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS-CoV coronavirus) and swine flu, seriously threaten global health and the global economy.
Due to the misuse of antibiotics and massive international travel, the spread of carbapenemase-resistant Gram-negative bacteria is a serious concern.
These infections with epidemic and pandemic potential pose a major threat to public health in the Asia-Pacific region and require a more effective system of prevention and control, "states the scientific paper" Emerging respiratory infections threaten public health in the Asia-Pacific region. "
Scientists at Duke-NUS Medical School in Singapore, in their work "Viruses in bats and their potential transmission to animals and humans," noted the presence of viruses that could cause epidemics that were transmitted from bats.
These include SARS coronavirus, Hendra virus and Nipah virus.
Bats may also be responsible for the spread of Ebola virus and MERS coronavirus.
They can be the repository of a large number of known and unknown viruses, many of which can be transmitted to humans.
Knowledge of bat biology and immunology is limited, and scientists have no clear understanding of the main factors affecting the transmission of viruses from bats. "
In January 2019, Singaporean scientists published the latest detailed experimental data on how bats can transmit viruses.
Experts from the University of Hong Kong have noted that bats are the most effective proliferators of coronaviruses, and southern China is the ideal place for a global pandemic to start.
In their work "The Global Epidemiology of Batavian Coronaviruses," published on the NCBI website in February 2019, it can be read as follows: "Bats are the second largest mammal species and potential vectors of a wide variety of viruses.
They are the only group of mammals capable of long flight, allowing them to spread viruses and increase the likelihood of interspecific transmission...
Prior to the SARS epidemic in the early 2000s, bats were not known to carry coronaviruses.
Over the past 15 years, they have discovered more than 30 coronaviruses with secreted complete genomes, and much more if they have no genome sequences. "
In numerous works, Chinese scientists have pointed out that the greatest danger to people is wildlife markets and restaurants in Southern China, where bats are sold or cooked.
Their presence leads to inter-species transmission of coronaviruses and can trigger destructive global outbreaks of disease, they believe.
During the 2016-2017 international scientific cooperation, 1,779 bats were caught for research in the southern provinces of China, 32 of which were found to be carriers of coronaviruses.
"Two new alpha coronaviruses, the bat coronaviruses Rhinolophus sinicus HKU32 (Rs-BatCoV HKU32) and the bat coronaviruses Tylonycteris robustula HKU33 (Tr-BatCoV HKU33), have been found in Chinese dwarf bats in Guangdong and large bamboo bats in Guizhou province," says the University of Hong Kong virologist.
- The new alphakoronavirus of bats confirm that Chinese subterranean bats are undoubtedly the main potential repositories of the new coronaviruses. "
In the summer of 2019, scientists from the South Korean University of Halim, the Shanghai University of Fudan, and the International Islamic University of Malaysia published detailed studies on possible geolocations of the spread of coronavirus-induced bat epidemics in the human population.
In particular, the following map is provided.
The geographical distribution of bats carrying coronaviruses.
Image: ncbi.nlm.nih.gov
The Special Pathogens and Biosafety Laboratory of the Virology Institute in Wuhan, China is also actively studying coronaviruses and their transmission by flying mice.
In 2019, based on research, its specialists published several dozen papers on the infection and its spread.
And, for example, in one of their papers, they reported the discovery of a new species of alfakoronovirus with unique genomic features in the bats Rhinolophus...............
In their studies, the Uthman scientists pointed out that the source of the coronavirus was the southern provinces of China.
In the United States, COVID-19 was found earlier than it was found in China.
On December 2, 2020, RIA News reported a retrospective study of blood samples collected from U.S. residents in December 2019, showing that some of them had COVID-19 even before the virus was announced in China.
Journal of Clinical Infectious Diseases.
Officials in China first reported mysterious cases of pneumonia in Wuhan, which turned out to be caused by coronavirus, on 31 December 2019.
In the United States, the first confirmed case of COVID-19 was registered on January 20, 2020 with a resident of Washington State who had recently arrived from China.
Researchers at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) analyzed over 7,000 donor blood samples collected by the American Red Cross in nine states between December 13, 2019 and January 17, 2020.
Of these, 106 tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 antibodies: 39 in California, and 67 in Connecticut, Iowa, Massachusetts, Michigan, Rhode Island, and Wisconsin.
The authors conducted additional tests to exclude cross-reactivity of antibodies to other viruses and found that the antibodies found were specific to SARS-CoV-2.
Even with possible false positive tests, it is safe to say that by early December the virus was already in the US, scientists note.
Virologists believe that the presence of antibodies in the blood does not indicate that a person is currently ill, but only that he or she has had contact with the virus in the past.
The authors also note that the design of the study makes it impossible to determine where and when antibody carriers were infected with coronavirus - possibly people who recently returned from China.
It has been reported that the virus has been circulating in China since November 2019.........
Retrospective studies conducted earlier in France and Italy also found antibodies against SARS-CoV-2 in blood samples collected from residents of those countries in early December 2019.
Scientists plan to continue the study by contacting people whose blood showed antibodies to report whether they traveled in late 2019 and experienced symptoms similar to COVID-19.
In addition, the authors hope to find tissue, saliva, or blood samples from these people from the time they were found to be infected with SARS-CoV-2.
Why is a virus so dangerous from China?.....
How the virus works
What is Coronavirus COVID-19 is being studied by Alexei Semihatov, Doctor of Physical and Mathematical Sciences, Chief Research Officer of the Physical Institute.
Lebedeva RAS together with Alexander Lukashev, Director of the Institute of Medical Parasitology, Tropical and Vector Diseases of Sechenov University.
The virus is essentially a protein-encased code.
Unlike bacteria, it is not self-sufficient.
The main task of the virus is to bring its genetic code into the cell and make it produce its own proteins.
If a virus succeeds in this task, then in a single cell, not one virus, but up to 100,000 virus particles are produced.
In fact, he 's creating a machine that replicates himself.................
The virus is not universal; it must be "tuned" to specific organisms and cell types.
To do so, it has to.............
This happens in the process of copying, by creating inaccurate copies.
The virus makes these mistakes intentionally.
He could make fewer mistakes, but he makes a lot of them specifically to have options adapted to different conditions.
Yes, most copies will fail, but for the virus this is the acceptable price, because only one successful one will give it an advantage either in the cell type obtained, or in the other host, or in the attack of the immune system.
There are no two identical viruses inside the cell; they change constantly.
RNA-containing viruses literally make one error per subsequent genome.
It is not surprising, therefore, that unknown strains are constantly emerging.
This is also the case with the 2019 coronavirus, which is officially named 2019-nCoV.
How dangerous COVID-19 is compared to other viruses
In order to assess the risk of a disease spreading, scientists use the concept of a basic reproductive number.
In fact, it means how many people on average are infected by one disease.
If this number falls below one, the spread of the disease ceases.
For influenza, it 's 2, and for measles, it' s 15.
The SARS virus of 2003 had a basic reproductive number of 4.
2019-nCoV.
The video shows the evolution of COVID-19 in comparison to other viruses during the first 100 days.
However, unlike the outbreak of the disease in 2003, this time States have shown unprecedented openness and activity in fighting the enemy.
The first genome of the virus was deciphered a few days later.
As of January 31, 2020, there are about 30 genomes in humans and 100 in bats.
The most devastating epidemics in human history as at 15 March 2020
Knowledge of the genome helps in diagnosing the disease, it allows in 2-3 days to develop a test to accurately identify the virus in the blood.
Such tests were quickly developed in various countries around the world, including Russia.
But vaccine production takes a long time - even if it is enough to have a decrypted genome in its hands.
The problem is that the vaccine must not only fight the disease, but also be technological, safe, and affordable.
That is why it takes an average of at least six months to develop and produce a vaccine.
Mutations
2021: emergence of a strain not detected by PCR test
In mid-March 2021, the French Ministry of Health reported that an entirely new strain of coronavirus had been discovered in the French region of Brittany.
This strain is not determined by conventional PCR tests.
According to the Ministry, the new variant was found in a cluster of eight cases in the regional hospital of Lanyon.
Those infected with this strain had symptoms, but PCR tests were negative.
A serological blood test may be required to diagnose this virus infection.
The Ministry also stressed that the initial analysis did not lead to the conclusion that the new strain was more dangerous or aggressive than the traditional virus.
No additional information on the "Breton option" was provided by the French Ministry.
In the near future, researchers should conduct new experiments to study this strain and its effects, as well as test the mutant variant's response to vaccines and antibodies.
In France, a strain of coronavirus has been detected that is not determined by PCR
According to the latest data, more than 4.1 million cases of coronavirus infection have been identified in France, and nearly 91,000 cases have been identified.
Fatalities.
French health authorities reported that on 15 March, the number of people in intensive care units with COVID-19 increased to 4,219, another record since late November.
Over the weekend, hospitals in the Paris area, which account for more than a quarter of all COVID-19 heavy patients, began transferring patients to other parts of France to reduce the burden on the capital's health system.
The main restrictions and curfews remain in place.
Several strains of the virus have been identified worldwide during the year of the pandemic.
Some of the new mutations are believed to spread faster than the classical virus.
In mid-March, one such strain, South African, was discovered in Russia.
2020: 3 different COVID-19 types
As of April 10, 2020, the coronavirus has mutated as it has spread around the world.
At this time, there were three COVID-19 types in operation in the world.............
This conclusion was reached by researchers from Cambridge who analyzed the "genetic history" of the new type of coronavirus.
The Daily Mail.
A team of scientists analyzed 160 complete genomes of the virus collected worldwide between 24 December 2019 and 4 March 2020.
The researchers identified three different "variants" of the COVID-19, naming them A, B and C.
The strain analysis showed that type A, the original virus that was transmitted to humans from bats through lizards, was not the most common in China.
This variation is usually found in the United States and Australia.
Type A appears to have mutated into type B.
According to a study of genotypes of the virus, the epidemic in China was caused by type B.
This variant is mostly found in Asia, but has not advanced far beyond the region without further mutations.
Type C, the "daughter strain" of type B, has already originated outside China and is found mostly in Europe.
The results of the study showed that the coronavirus epidemic in the United Kingdom may have come from Singapore, the Republic of Korea, or Hong Kong, but not from China.
Scientists believe that the virus, officially called SARS-CoV-2, is constantly mutating to overcome the resilience of the immune system in different populations.
The study revealed a strange situation in which the original strain A spread to the West Coast of the United States despite not being the most common strain in China, strain B.
Scientists stress that coronavirus continues to mutate.
The results of the study can help predict the future spread of the disease.
This article is published on the website of the National Academy of Sciences (PNAS).
Photos of the coronavirus
2021: Coronavirus in CT scans
In mid-March 2021, the itnonline photo gallery showed many examples of COVID-19 (SARS-CoV-2) infection in visual examination, including CT, MRI, X-ray, ultrasound and echocardiogram.
The X-rays show examples of typical COVID pneumonia and the numerous complications that the virus causes in the body in many organs, including the brain, kidneys, heart, abdominal cavity and vascular system..............
UZs, especially portable ultrasound imaging devices, became the main imaging method for new coronavirus infections due to the portability of the device and easy sterilization after use.
CT and mobile X-ray systems are also used as primary imaging systems for patients with COVID-positive results or suspected COVID.
In patients with pneumonia caused by the new coronavirus infection, characteristic X-ray features are found on tomography images, such as the effect of "matte glass" (multicellular shadows or bubbles associated with increased lung parenchyma density), "boulder" (overlying the intercellular partitions result in increased and retinal deformation of the lung pattern), single or multiple node lesions and diffuse (spilled) sealing - the peak stage of the disease known as "white lung."
Images were obtained from doctors, researchers, universities and hospitals, National Institutes of Health (NIH), North American Radiological Society (RSNA), American College of Radiologists (ACR), Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and radiology providers.
How can you become infected with coronavirus?
List of most hazardous activities
As of July 2020, the Texas Medical Association has compiled a table for residents of the United States.
From animals to humans
Coronaviruses are transmitted from animals to humans.
By 2020, several known coronaviruses are circulating in animals that have not yet infected humans.
Airborne and contaminated objects
Respiratory infections are spread through droplets of various sizes: droplets with a diameter > 5-10 μm are called respiratory droplets, droplets with a diameter of 5 μm are classified as droplets (by size they can be classified as aerosol particles).
According to data available at the end of March 2020, COVID-19 is transmitted mainly through respiratory droplets as well as through contact.
A publication analysing 75,465 cases of COVID-19 infection in China does not report the aerogenic route of transmission of the virus.
Capillary transmission occurs in close contact (within 1 m) with a person with respiratory symptoms (e.g. coughing or sneezing), i.e. when there is a risk of contact of mucous membranes of the mouth and nose or conjunctivitis with potentially infectious respiratory droplets.
Transmission of the virus is also possible through contaminated objects in the immediate vicinity of the infected person.
In this way, COVID-19 transmission can result in direct contact with infected persons and indirect contact with surfaces in the immediate vicinity of the infected person or with objects with which he or she has been in contact.
Aerogenic transfer differs from droplet transfer in that it involves the presence of pathogenic micro-organisms in droplet nuclei, i.e., as commonly defined, in particles with a diameter ≤ 5 um, which can persist in the form of aerial suspension for a long time and be transferred at a distance greater than 1 m.
For COVID-19, aerobic transmission may probably occur under certain conditions in procedures or supportive therapy involving aerosol formation, such as endotracheal intubation, bronchoscopy, open aspiration, inhalation, manual artificial ventilation of the lungs prior to intubation, reversal of the patient to the abdomen, removal of the patient from the IVL apparatus, non-invasive artificial ventilation of the lungs with positive pressure, tracheostomy, and cardiac resuscitation.
It has been suggested that in some cases it may be transmitted by the fecal-oral route.
However, it has not yet been possible to firmly establish such a method of transferring COVID-19 to February 2020.
According to data from the provinces of Guangdong and Sichuan, 78 per cent and 85 per cent, respectively, of COVID-19 infections occurred in families.
In addition, a further 3-10 per cent of cases show double contamination, both in families and in contact with strangers.
Life expectancy of coronavirus on different surfaces
2020: COVID-19 lives on human skin 9 hours
Coronavirus COVID-19 lives on human skin for about 9 hours.
This is five times longer than the flu virus, researchers from the Japanese Medical University in Kyoto reported.
The results were obtained from experiments that applied 100,000 samples of coronavirus and influenza to human skin and then recorded the time that passed before the virus disappeared.
Influenza viruses disappeared within 1-2 hours, and coronavirus in some cases remained for 11 hours, with an average of 9 hours.
COVID-19 lives on human skin for 9 hours, that's 5 times longer than influenza
The experiment also showed that 80% ethanol treatment allowed all coronaviruses to be killed within 15 seconds.
In addition, the number of viruses can be reduced 100 times by washing hands under running water.
If you wash your hands with soap for about 15 seconds, there will be only one tens of thousands of coronaviruses left on your skin.
The effect will be further enhanced if washed hands are treated with alcohol antiseptics, according to university specialists.
However, scientists note that only one strain of coronavirus and influenza was studied.
According to data released in October 2020 by the Australian Society for Scientific and Applied Research (CSIRO), SARS-CoV-2 persists longer at lower temperatures and on non-porous and smooth surfaces.
And as temperatures rise to 30 and 40 degrees Celsius, its survival rates decline.
At plus 20 degrees, the virus can stay on the surfaces for about a month.
Money Pollution
On March 20, 2020, it was announced that coronavirus could be infected with money.
The channel of transmission of the disease can become ATMs with the function of cache-resailling.
This function allows the receipt and delivery of cash using bank cards, without collection and therefore processing.
Other organizations are required to deposit and recalculate bills under a contract.
As a result, no one processes banknotes with antibacterial solutions until they are handed over to another customer.
This is simply impossible, writes "Izvestia" with reference to the operating director of Post-Bank Elena Mohnacheva.
Banks warned about the possibility of coronavirus from ATM money
Bank officials confirmed to the newspaper that it was more than real to get coronavirus from the notes.
A financial institution has been considering installing special equipment in ATMs that will expose money to ultraviolet or ozone treatment.
However, this will require a lot of time and resources, the publication states.
In the Central Bank of the Russian Federation, as of March 20, 2020, no action is taken against financial and credit organizations against the background of the proliferation of coronavirus.
The regulator is based on the recommendations of the World Health Organization, which does not encourage the renunciation of the use of cash, although it recognizes that, in theory, banknotes can be a conduit for virus transmission.
Elena Mohnacheva noted that for effective disinfection of the keyboards on which PIN code is entered, it is necessary to process the surface after each transaction.
It's complicated.
In addition, she added that there was a risk of damage to the device during antiseptic treatment.
According to the World Health Organization (WHO), coronavirus lives on paper for three to four days.
Virus survival at low temperatures and risk of transmission through frozen products
In June 2020, infectionist Li Lanjian, a member of the Special Expert Commission of the State Health Committee of the People's Republic of China, stated that COVID-19 virus is unique and has the ability to at low temperatures.
"At a temperature of -4 degrees Celsius, it can survive for several months," said the expert.
She also added that at a temperature of -20 degrees the new coronavirus could live for 20 years.
Li Lanjian called it no accident that coronavirus was discovered several times in markets where seafood is sold, as there are many chilled products.
It was therefore concerned that coronavirus could be transported together with chilled or frozen products.
The expert called for preventive measures and epidemiological surveillance in the transport of frozen goods.
"5G station contamination" rumors
5G base stations in Wuhan, China, may have triggered the actual appearance of the coronavirus - this theory needs to be tested as one of the main ones.
In an interview with "Octagon," the scientist Oleg Grigoriev, a member of the scientific advisory committee of WHO, who heads the official scientific association - the Russian National Committee for Protection against Non-Ionizing Radiation, told about this.
According to Grigoriev, a characteristic of the standard under the common name 5G is the way the signal is organized: it is a high-amplitude high-gradient pulse; the focus of the main beam on the device (now 2G, 3G, 4G - the main beam dispersed in space); the use of a wide spectrum of frequencies in a "packet of pulses."
This was experimentally tested in the 1980s and 1990s, as this type of antenna and signal were used to find effective radar techniques, while simultaneously investigating bioeffects.
Partly published in our articles, in the work of Professor Svetlana Lukyanova ("Electromagnetic field of microwave range of non-thermal intensity as an irritant for CNS," 2015).
The receptor for the long-range is primarily skin receptors, the ends of the nervous system.
Their reaction is clearly reflected in the brain.
For simplicity, we recommend to remember the medieval drip torture (a person who is immobilized for days is slowly dripping water on his head.
- d.
Yes, the effect is primarily on the nervous system.
But because of the special antenna of the subscriber terminal, the chance of oncology will increase, says Grigoriev.
And the way out of this situation - a compromise for health - Grigoriev does not yet see: The signal of the projected 5G cannot be correlated with the Russian maximum permissible levels (MRLs), and the existing measurement methods are not applicable.
I will never sign under 5G security as presented.
For 10 years, I was the head of the biomedical testing of special technology, it's no secret.
My signature is on many documents that permit the use of new technologies that may affect health.
In April 2020, residents of the British cities of Liverpool, Birmingham and Merseyside set fire to 5G cellular stations, convinced that they were the cause of the coronavirus pandemic.
They were later followed by citizens in the Netherlands.
More here.
There have also been reports of mass threats of physical death and murder by telecommunications companies in the UK if they do not stop working on 5G networks, which allegedly lead to the spread of coronavirus infection.
This is reported by the Union of Communications Workers, which represents about 40,000.
Engineers.
Who is at particular risk
In Russia, the average age of the infected is 44-47 years.
As of April 19, 2020, the average age of infected in Russia is 47.9 years for women and 44.7 years for men.
They get sick, they die more often after 60 and from bad medicine.
Mortality statistics, end of March 2020
In Korea, the young are sick, in Italy.................
One of the main reasons for the huge discrepancy in coronavirus deaths between South Korea and Italy is the age structure of the cases.
Age distribution of coronavirus: South Korea and Italy
In Korea, 30% of the cases are between the ages of 20 and 29 (who are statistically the most susceptible), plus there is a second peak in the 50-59 range (which is also not as critical as the statistics suggest).
There are few elderly people who are sick.
In Italy, the opposite is the case: almost 60% of those infected are people over the age of 60 who are already at serious risk.
Data for Italy.
Characteristics of 3,200 patients who died from COVID-19.
Age structure.
Data as at 22 March 2020 g
China: the elderly and men at greatest risk
In late February 2020, representatives of China's health authorities published their first major report on coronavirus.
The document states that the mortality rate increases gradually with age.
There were no deaths among children under the age of nine.
Another conclusion is that men die more than women - the mortality rate for men is 2.8 per cent compared to 1.7 per cent for women.
As of 20 February 2020, deaths from coronavirus in China were 3.8% of those infected.
The mortality rate varies widely, from 5.8% in Wuhan to 0.7% in other provinces of China.
The maximum increase in mortality in Wuhan - 17.3% - was recorded at the beginning of the outbreak from 1 to 10 January 2020, and then decreased to 0.7% after 1 February.
There is no evidence of coronavirus poisoning.
In the first stage, those who were already in an extremely difficult situation died and did not see a doctor until the last stage of the disease.
Mortality increases with age.
The highest rate is 21.9 per cent for persons over 80 years of age.
The mortality rate for men is 4.7 per cent, compared with 2.8 per cent for women.
Among pensioners who are high-ranking officials in China, engineers and technicians typically have a mortality rate of 8.9 per cent over the age of 70.
Among deaths, the proportion of people with cardiovascular diseases is 13.2%, with diabetes 9.2%, and with hypertension 8.4%.
The average time from onset to recovery for clinical cases is two weeks, for patients with severe illness three to six weeks.
A growing number of patients have fully recovered even after a severe illness.
Of the heavy cases requiring the IVL, 13.4 per cent die.
The rest recover.
The sooner the disease is identified, the better the treatment.
What diseases increase the risk of coronavirus
As of early March 2020, the mortality rate for coronavirus in healthy people is less than 1%, but the risk increases significantly with associated diseases.
Number 1 is cardiovascular disease, mortality is 10.5%.
Next comes diabetes (7.3%), chronic respiratory diseases (6.3%), hypertension (6%) and cancer (5.6%).
Data for Italy.
Characteristics of 3200 patients who died from COVID-19 by March 22, 2020..
Heart disease prevails.
Security measures
Carantyne
How was a coronavirus quarantine introduced in the world?
End March 2020
Social distancing
Why Social Distraction Is Vital
To stop the spread of coronavirus, social interactions around the world are limited..
This infographic is based on calculations by Robert A.
J.
Signer, an associate professor of medicine at the University of California, San Diego, shows how social distancing can reduce the spread of the virus.
Without a change in social behavior, one infected person will transmit the virus to an average of 2.5 people in five days.
In 30 days this figure will rise to 406 new infections.
The number can be significantly reduced.
With a 50 per cent reduction, the number of new infections caused by the average person after 30 days is only 15.
A 75 per cent change would result in an even smaller 2.5 new cases, which would significantly reduce the burden on health services and, if all were to follow, allow the country to "smooth the curve" of new infections.
Prevention
Here are WHO recommendations that will help reduce the risk of contracting the virus:
Wash your hands regularly with soap;
When coughing and sneezing, use a clean napkin or cover your mouth and nose with bent elbows.
Prepare meat and eggs in sufficient time;
Avoid close contact with someone with respiratory symptoms such as coughing and sneezing;
If there is an increase in temperature and other alarm symptoms, seek immediate medical attention;
Avoid visiting markets as far as possible, especially in areas where new coronaviruses are present;
Provide adequate ventilation;
daily cleaning in the room.
Wearing masks
As of October 2020, Japanese researchers have shown that masks can provide protection from coronavirus particles.
Scientists at the University of Tokyo have built a safe camera with dummy heads.
One head imitated the cough and produced real coronavirus particles.
The other simulated breathing and had a device to collect the virus.
The cotton mask reduced the virus reception of the head-receiver by 40% and the N95 mask used by medical personnel blocked up to 90%.
But some viral particles still got inside the dummy.
When the mask was attached to the coughing head, it blocked more than 50% of transmission.
"There was a synergistic effect when both the virus recipient and the virus distributor wore masks," researchers wrote in a study published on Wednesday.
Hand hygiene
The most common way to get infected is to touch people, so you often have to wash your hands.
The virus can only live on your hands for 5-10 minutes.
But in these 5-10 minutes, anything can happen (you can lose your eyes with your hands or touch your nose).
Mouth and throat swelling
In addition to frequent hand washing, you can rinse the throat with Betadine to eliminate or minimize the actions of microbes while they are still in the throat (before entering the lungs).
According to a new report by Cardiff University in May 2020, mouthwash fluid can protect against COVID-19 infection by killing coronavirus before it infects human cells.
Coronaviruses are classified as "envelope viruses," meaning they are covered with a fat (lipid) layer that is vulnerable to certain chemicals.
The liver does not change during virus mutation, as it is a universal target.
Researchers believe that mouthwash fluid can destroy the virus's shell, preventing it from multiplying in the mouth and throat.
Some mouthwash fluids contain enough compounds to affect fats in similar skin viruses.
Inhalants of oral sprays, including chlorhexidine, cetylpyridine chloride, hydrogen peroxide and positron iodide, have the potential to prevent infections.
Drink hot water
The Wuhan virus is not thermostable and dies at 26-27 degrees Celsius.
So drink more hot water.
Stay more and longer under the sun.
Hot water is not a medicine, useful for health, effective against all viruses.
COVID-19 coronavirus vaccines
Main article:
COVID-19 coronavirus vaccines
Symptoms
COVID-19 symptom groups
A study by the Medical University of Vienna in November 2020 established a relationship between individual groups of coronavirus symptoms.
A total of 7 related groups were allocated:
1) Influenza-like symptoms;
2) Symptoms like a cold
(3) Muscle and joint pain;
(4) inflammation of the eyes and mucous membranes;
(5) Problems with light;
(6) WCT problems;
Loss of smell and taste.
Different groups may overlap, but not always.
Thus, for example, "loss of taste and smell" or "muscle pain" may be the only symptom of the disease, even without increasing temperature.
Study of Chinese Symptoms at the Start of the Epidemic
The symptoms of COVID-19 are undetermined, and the development of the disease can range from asymptomatic to severe pneumonia and death.
According to surveys of 55,924 patients in China (at the end of February 2020), symptoms and symptoms include:
88% fever,
dry cough 68%
Abundant urination 33%
heavy rest - 19%,
Myalgia - 15
Heavy angina - 14%
Severe headache is 14%.
vomiting - 5%,
Severe diarrhoea is 4 percent.
Blood pressure is 1%.
The difficulty is that COVID-19 does not have any specific characteristic of this disease alone.
All these symptoms can be associated with a variety of diseases, including easily transmitted diseases.
People with COVID-19 experience symptoms for an average of 5-6 days after infection, ranging from 1 to 14 days.
The vast majority of those infected with coronavirus, including older persons, either carry the disease asymptomatic, feel a mild illness or are asymptomatic.
According to laboratory studies, even older people in about 4 / 5 cases have either a asymptomatic or moderate form, including pneumonia.
However, 14 per cent have a severe form of disease requiring a connection to a ventilator.
If you get sleepy with a cold, you cannot be a carrier of coronavirus infection.
Coronavirus pneumonia is a dry cough without sneezing.
This is the simplest way to define it.
Coronary Board:
The virus is large enough (the cell diameter is about 400-500 nm), so a normal copper mask can in principle filter.
If an infected person sneezes in front of you or passes within three meters of you, the retarder of the step of the infection will simply fall to the ground, will not be able to fly.
If the virus reaches the surface of the metal, it will last at least 12 hours.
Therefore, if you touch any metal surface, wash your hands thoroughly with soap.
The virus can remain active for 6-12 hours.
A regular washing powder should kill the virus.
Winter clothing is enough to dry in the sun to kill the virus.
On the symptoms directly of coronavirus-induced pneumonia:
Once inside the throat, there may be dry throat, which occurs in angina.
3-4 days
The virus will then fuse with the nasal fluid, enter the trachea, and then into the lungs, causing inflammation of the lungs.
This process will take 5 to 6 days.
Coronavirus pneumonia is characterized by high temperature and difficulty breathing.
The nose is not as deep as normal, it feels like you are drowning in water.
In this case, a doctor should be consulted immediately.
Common signs of infection include:
Respiratory symptoms
fever,
dry cough,
Difficulty in breathing
I'm sorry.
In more severe cases, the infection can cause pneumonia, severe acute respiratory syndrome, kidney failure and even death.
When should caution be exercised?
According to WHO recommendations, special attention should be paid to the following:
in case of severe acute respiratory infection (fever, cough), if the person was in the city of Wuhan 2 weeks prior to the onset of symptoms, and if the suspect symptoms appeared in a medical officer who was working in an environment where severe acute respiratory infections of unknown etiology are being treated;
for any acute respiratory disease, if the person was in contact with a patient infected with the virus, worked or visited a medical facility 2 weeks before the onset of symptoms.
When calling a doctor at home or an ambulance
When to call a doctor at home
A home doctor may be called if there is an increase in temperature - above 37.2 degrees and / or signs of ORVI: cough, constipation of the nose, difficulty breathing, shortness of breath, chest pain, weakness, headache, loss of smell.
In addition, there are conditions in which the call of a doctor to the home for such symptoms is not merely desirable but strictly necessary.
These are:
The patient is over 65 years of age;
associated pathologies, i.e. chronic diseases, which increase the risk of severe complications of COVID-19.
These include diabetes mellitus, cardiovascular diseases, chronic kidney diseases, respiratory diseases and cancer;
contact with persons diagnosed with COVID-19, or coming from a region with an acute condition for the spread of coronavirus infection.
When to call an ambulance
When severe symptoms occur, such as fever above 38.5 degrees, chest pain, feeling of lack of air, etc., it is best to call an ambulance immediately.
The results of the interview with the ambulance operator resulted in one of three decisions:
send the patient to an ambulance team.
According to the rules, she must arrive within 20 minutes if the patient 's life is at risk;
Call 911.
If the patient 's condition does not threaten his or her life but requires immediate medical attention, the emergency team should arrive within two hours;
Send a call to the polyclinic at the place of residence for the doctor to come to the house.
This option is possible if, after consulting the ambulance doctor by telephone, it is found that the patient 's condition is not of serious concern and does not require urgent or urgent care.
As Sergei Shkitin, an expert of the All-Russian Insurance Union, said in November 2020, the need to perform laboratory blood tests is determined by the doctor.
The Ministry of Health's Methodological Recommendations states that in the light flow of COVID-19 and home-based treatment of the patient, high-tech research methods such as CT / MRI are generally not required.
If the patient is hospitalized - mainly from the middle of the disease - general blood tests and biochemistry, pulmonary CT and other studies should be performed at the time of hospitalization.
The analysis is carried out by a medical team.
Or a doctor of a polyclinic during a primary examination.
The results should be reported to the patient within a reasonable time, possibly within 2-3 days.
In the event of loss or significant delay in the delivery of the results, patients should contact the health insurance institution directly.
When hospitalization is due
During a pandemic, a large number of citizens' requests for hospitalization are recorded, in which case they have to contact an insurance company.
With a temperature of ≥ 38.5 ° C for 3 days, patients with COVID-19 should be hospitalized.
Either by a local doctor or an ambulance doctor.
Patients of moderate severity who have any of the following two indicators are also subject to hospitalization:
95% saturation;
a.
Respiratory rate > 22;
Signs of pneumonia with a prevalence of changes in both lungs greater than 25% (with pulmonary CT results).
In addition, patients at risk are hospitalized regardless of the severity of the injury, namely:
over 65 years of age;
with related diseases and conditions: arterial hypertension; chronic heart failure; cancer; hypercoagulation; DCS; acute coronary syndrome; diabetes mellitus; motor neuron disease; cirrhosis of the liver; long-term GC and biological therapy for inflammatory bowel diseases; rheumatoid arthritis; patients receiving haemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis; immune deficiency, including HIV infection without antiretroviral therapy; receiving chemotherapy;
patients living in a hostel, a multi-population apartment, with persons over 65 years of age, with persons suffering from chronic diseases of bronchial, cardiovascular and endocrine systems.
Sergei Shkitin stresses that in some cases, as part of the consideration of applications to the insurance company, an evaluation of the timeliness and quality of the medical assistance provided will be organized.
This will allow a detailed understanding of the situation of the insured.
Why, for example, the patient has not been referred to higher-level medical organizations, has not been referred for examination, such as CT, MRI, ultrasound and others, has not been operated as part of high-tech medical care.
Also, the insurance representative (expert) examines why the treatment scheme does not deliver the intended result.
COVID-19 coronavirus tests
Main article:
COVID-19 coronavirus tests
How to determine the weight of COVID-19
Light current
38 ° C, cough, weakness, sore throat;
Respiratory rate ≤ 22;
CAS No.
Average flow
temperature > 38 ° C;
Respiratory rate > 22 / min
breathing under physical stress;
CT / X-ray changes: minimal or moderate damage (CT 1-2);
Blood C-reactive protein level > 10 mg / L
Heavy flow
Respiratory rate > 30 / min
Saturation ≤ 93%;
unstable haemodynamics: systolic (upper) blood pressure less than 90 mm Hg or diastolic (lower) pressure less than 60 mm Hg);
Significant or subtotal lung damage (CT 3-4);
decreased consciousness, agitation.
How to treat pneumonia with coronavirus
The introduction of coronavirus into the body mobilizes protective mechanisms of the immune system to fight the disease.
However, some people experience excessive activation of the immune response with uncontrolled release of proteins (cytokines), resulting in a so-called cytokine storm that can result in damage to the patient's lungs, kidneys, and heart.
Oleg Rosenberg, Head of the Laboratory of Medical Biotechnology of the Russian Scientific Centre for Radiology and Surgical Technologies.
Academician A. M. Granov at the end of March 2020 spoke about the specifics of pneumonia in coronavirus.
According to the specialist, the main characteristic of COVID-19 is the rate of entry and damage to the respiratory tract, causing pneumonia - inflammation of the lungs.
The majority of those infected, however, suffer from a common acute viral disease, are treated with vitamins, heat-reducing drugs, and recover.
Pneumonia develops faster in coronavirus than in seasonal influenza and swine flu.
The severe course of the disease is characterized mainly by at-risk groups: people over 60 years of age with chronic diseases such as diabetes, chronic cardiovascular disease, obstructive pulmonary disease, and systemic diseases leading to reduced immunity.
The burden of such diseases is much more difficult to cope with severe pneumonia, as these diseases themselves make other organs (kidneys, liver, heart) work to the limit.
Number of cases and deaths
Main article:
COVID-19 Coronavirus morbidity and mortality
Drugs from coronavirus
Antibodies and immunity to coronavirus COVID-19
Post-illness recovery
Main article:
Recovery after COVID-19
World epidemics
COVID-19 Coronavirus in Russia
COVID-19 Coronavirus in Ukraine
COVID-19 Coronavirus in Ukraine
COVID-19 Coronavirus in the United States
COVID-19 Coronavirus in the United States
COVID-19 Coronavirus in India
COVID-19 Coronavirus in India
Economic impact of COVID-19 coronavirus
Using new technologies to combat the epidemic
Use of drones
Use of robots
Smart glasses
Software to combat the epidemic
Main article:
COVID-19 software
Chronology of the fight against the virus
Medtronic and the Medtronic Foundation donated over $46 million to combat the COVID-19 pandemic.
Medtronic and the Medtronic Foundation have pledged an additional $3.8 million to support and protect health-care workers, provide emergency care, psychological support and food aid to needy organizations and communities in response to the further escalation of the COVID-19 pandemic and the trend towards food shortages.
It was announced in 2020.
Thus, the total amount of the company's donations to help with the COVID-19 pandemic exceeded $46 million.
More here.
Siemens AG has established a fund to combat COVID-19
On 15 April 2020, it was announced that Siemens AG's board had decided to establish a fund to combat COVID-19.
More here.
Microsoft invests $20 million to fight COVID-19 with AI
On April 9, 2020, Microsoft announced that it is investing $20 million to combat COVID-19 coronavirus as part of the AI for Health program, which aims to provide companies, non-profit organizations, and health scientists with access to AI tools, cloud computing, and other necessary resources.
The company decided to expand the program to help those who are looking for ways to combat one of the most important problems of the modern day - COVID-19 coronavirus.
More here.
Intel donated $50 million to a technology initiative to combat coronavirus
On April 7, 2020, Intel announced an additional $50 million in funding for a technology initiative to combat coronavirus, which is to accelerate access to technology in hospitals, promote research, and provide students and teachers with tools for online learning.
The expanded initiative includes an additional innovation fund for those cases where access to Intel expertise and resources can provide immediate impact.
Measures are being taken in addition to previously announced donations totalling $10 million to support regions of active presence at this critical time.
More here.
Mindray will place 10,000.
Medical devices for COVID-19 patients in Italy
On April 6, 2020, Zdrav.Expert reported that Mindray, a provider of medical devices and solutions, had received a contract from the Italian government to supply about 10,000 medical devices for monitoring and treating patients with COVID-19.
More here.
The EU is working on a standard for tracking contacts with COVID-19 patients
On 2 April 2020, it was announced that a group of European scientists and digital experts, led by experts from the Fraunhofer Heinrich Hertz Institute for Telecommunications (HHI) in Germany, were working on a technology for tracing close contacts with infected COVID-19, which does not violate EU data protection laws.
More here.
Promobot introduced coronavirus prevention terminals
In late March 2020, Russian robot manufacturer Promobot demonstrated Thermocontrol terminals that help prevent COVID-19 coronavirus.
The equipment measures human temperature to an accuracy of 0.2 degrees.
More here.
Communications operators will transmit geo-location data to EC as part of COVID-19
On 26 March 2020, it was announced that the telecommunications companies Vodafone, Deutsche Telekom, Orange, Telefonica, Telecom Italia, Telenor, Telia and A1 Telekom Austria had agreed to provide the European Commission with geolocation data from their subscribers' mobile devices as part of the fight against the spread of coronavirus.
In order to protect privacy, the European Commission will receive data in anonymous form.
These data are reported to be used to coordinate coronavirus surveillance.
The EC had no plans to centralize data from mobile devices or violate citizens' right to privacy, and when the crisis was over, all data would be deleted.
However, Vievorovsky also expressed concern that the provision of geo-location data by telecommunications companies could become a normal practice even after the quarantine was completed.
As previously reported by Securitylab, Edward Snowden also expressed concerns about continuing mass surveillance after the end of the crisis.
According to a former CIA staff member, temporary measures to combat the spread of coronavirus, including the use of surveillance technologies, could become permanent.
As of March 2020, various governments are using information technology to combat the spread of coronavirus.
For example, the Israeli Ministry of Health has released an app that allows geolocation data to identify possible contacts with infected people, and Iranian authorities are monitoring the location of their citizens on a massive scale through the COVID-19 information app.
US authorities are also considering tracking citizens' movements to monitor the spread of the coronavirus
There were holographic buttons in the elevators.
At the end of March 2020, Easpeed technology company, based near Shanghai, received over 100 orders for holographic button panels for elevators.
Chinese citizens are thus trying to reduce the risk of coronavirus transmission through contact routes.
More here.
How coronavirus turns telemedicine into a major treatment tool
By mid-March 2020, health IT directors are seeking to expand the use of telemedicine to address the rapidly growing threat of the Covid-19 pandemic.
More here.
The Government of Israel has endorsed the initiative to track citizens' phones without a court order
On March 15, 2020, the Israeli government endorsed Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's initiative to use anti-terrorist measures to combat the spread of coronavirus.
The Government reportedly agreed to allow Shin Bet counter-intelligence to monitor citizens' phones on a massive scale without a court order.
The final decision on the introduction of this measure will be taken by the Knesset Special Services Subcommittee.
More here.
Hospitals in Italy started buying 3D printers
In mid-March 2020, hospitals in northern Italy began purchasing 3D printers to save patients with coronavirus.
More here.
WHO encourages switching to non-contact payments due to coronavirus
On 5 March 2020, it was reported that the World Health Organization (WHO) recommended that consumers avoid contact with banknotes and switch to non-contact payments to prevent the spread of COVID-19 coronavirus.
WHO issued this recommendation after China and Korea began to separate and disinfect used banknotes in cash, which are known to be carriers of viruses and bacteria.
In 2017, a study of banknotes used in New York identified 397 different types of bacteria on their surface.
A representative of the World Health Organization in a recent interview with The Telegraph noted:
How video surveillance helped China deal with the epidemic quickly
China was able to establish an effective system not only to identify COVID-19 carriers, but also to identify the contact that caused the person to become ill.
For example, in Wuhan, as of February 2020, there are more than 1,800 professional epidemiological teams of at least five people each, including at least two epidemiologists, a lab technician and a minimum of one police officer.
These teams visually offline and through a mobile surveillance system track tens of thousands of contacts in Uhan every day.
Once the presence of a coronavirus has been established in a citizen, the video surveillance system in the city in a few minutes allows not only to mark on video all the external surveillance cameras of the patient, but also to identify the contact persons.
Once the contact persons have been identified, the members of the teams, usually police representatives, go to the databases and find the place of residence, as well as the phones of those who have contacted the sick citizens and warn them of the need for self-isolation, with a visit to a doctor if necessary.
According to available data, 1 to 5% of contacts with patients receive COVID-19 and an unknown proportion of COVID-19 contacts are asymptomatic.
Similar work is taking place in other regions of China.
For example, in Shenzhen, for 2,842 infected, all 100% of the contacts were identified.
As a result, only 2.8 per cent of the contacts were infected and infected with COVID-19.
In Sichuan province, 99% of contacts are identified.
A little less than 1 per cent are infected as a result of contact.
In Guangdong, all 9,939 contacts were identified.
In this province, the incidence of COVID-19 was 4.8 per cent.
China's mass retailers launch robotic couriers to deliver orders because of the coronavirus
At the end of February 2020, Chinese retailers began mass-launching robots to deliver orders to prevent the spread of the deadly coronavirus.
More here.
As examined by COVID-19: humans, mice, monkeys
On December 30, 2019, three bronchoalveolar specimens were collected from a patient with pneumonia with unknown etiology, similar to the virus found during the 2002-2003 SARS outbreak at Jinuntan Ochany Hospital.
Positive tests were obtained for pan-beta coronavirus.
After testing, the main genome sequences of this virus type were identified.
Bioinformatics studies have indicated that the isolated virus has features typical of the coronaviruses family and specifically belongs to the type 2B Betakoronavirus.
A study of the complete sequence of the COVID-19 genome and other available Betakoronavirus genomes found that the isolated virus was closest to the bat virus known as SARS coronavirus BatCov RaTG13 with an identity of 96%.
Viral isolation was carried out through various cell lines, including human respiratory epitheliocytes Vero E6 and Xa7.
The cellular invasiveness of isolated viruses was completely neutralized by serum collected from recovering patients.
Transgenic human mice Ase2 and rhesus monkeys were infected with the above virus and developed rapidly developing multifocal pneumonia with intratissue hyperplasma.
COVID-19 was subsequently detected and isolated in the lungs and intestinal tissues of these animals.
A comprehensive analysis of the ordered genome of 104 strains of COVID-19 received from various symptomatic patients between late December 2019 and mid-February 2020 showed similarity of samples taken from patients with 99.9% match without significant mutation.
Post-mortem samples taken from a patient from Wuhan, a 50-year-old man, were taken from the lung, liver and heart.
The histological examination showed bilateral diffuse alveolar damage with cellular fibrosis-like exudates.
It was found that there was a clear flushing of pneumocysts and hyaline membrane formation, indicating acute respiratory dysstress syndrome (ARDS).
The lung tissue also showed cellular and fibrosis-like exudation, flushing of pneumocytes and pulmonary edema.
In both lungs, intratissue mononuclear inflammatory infiltrates were observed.
Multinuclear cells with atypical enlarged pneumocytes, characterized by large nuclei of amphiphile granule cytoplasm and prominent nuclei, have been identified in intraalveolar sites showing viral as cytopathic changes.
No apparent intranuclear or intracytoplasmic viral additions have been identified.
See also
Zika virus