People learned about the coronavirus that was created in the U.S. lab in 2015.
They decided, pandemic is not an accident.
Social media users discovered a study of the bat coronavirus, in which scientists were able to modify the strain to infect humans.
In 2015, scientists from the United States began working on COVID-2019, and people saw this as confirmation of one of their favorite conspiracy theories.
The COVID-2019 epidemic, which began in the Chinese city of Wuhan, managed to get out of the Underworld within two months and spread around the world.
In mid-March, a popular social media article reported that a dangerous strain was artificially created as part of a study of the coronavirus bat by American scientists.
The scientific work was written by a team of biologists as early as 2015, and was published on the scientific portal Nature on 9 November 2015.
The researchers studied the SHCo14 virus found in Chinese bats.
Subcutaneous Muscle
Scientists have combined this strain with another one, called SARS, and it causes severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS.
The researchers further "generated and characterized a chimeric virus that can..." reproduce in the primary cells of the human respiratory tract. "
In other words, biologists have re-engineered bat coronavirus to produce a strain that could infect a human - and the virus would cause severe pneumonia.
The authors of the article include researchers from the University of North Carolina, USA, and the Wuhan Virological Institute, China.
In 2020, users of social networks read old scientific material and have become suspicious of who is behind the COVID-2019 epidemic.
Explain that to me.
Bat coronavirus, which causes respiratory distress, can now be transmitted to humans.
It will cause a global pandemic.
It is based in North Carolina.
The article was published in 2015.
While some people, after reading the article, decided to share with subscribers the very fact of its existence, others are already building theories.
They believe that the coronavirus epidemic is at the hands of the US government, with one of its objectives being to strike its own citizens.
Consider a 2015 article in Nature about experiments in the United States on bat coronavirus and SARS, which are potentially dangerous to humans.
It looks like an attempt to kill two rabbits with one shot: attack China and get rid of the elderly, that is, pensioners.
Russian-language Twitter also looked at the results of the research.
Coronavirus was patented in the United States in 2015.
The virus was introduced into China by an American military officer who took part in events on Chinese territory in late 2019.
Former Deputy Minister of Defence of Germany, Willy Wimmer..
Willy Wilmer, a German lawyer and politician, believes that the coronavirus was brought to China by infected American soldiers who came to the country for sporting events.
People with his version agree, and are ready to blame the US for thousands of deaths.
Some users believe that there are only two countries that will resist the US in a coronavirus situation, but how they will do so is not yet told.
And what happens next, everyone will swallow and sit quietly, only Russia and China will drown and the rest will swallow.
And no one is surprised that the US is blamed for the pandemic.
I had no doubt about the country where the virus was patented.
And what kind of military activity has been conducted in China?
But where the virus and the yew come from is clear!!
The comments did not respond to the question, but there was indeed a military event in China.
In late October 2019, the World War II Games were held in Wuhan, possibly referred to by Willie Wimmer.
At least Igor Nikulin, a former member of the UN commission on biological and chemical weapons, interpreted the German policy assumption exactly as he agrees.
Both policies have come to such conclusions.
The Chinese Foreign Ministry's representative, Zhao Lixian, also believes that COVID-2019 was brought into his country by U.S. military personnel.
Users who commented on the post about the words of Willie Wimmer and laboratory research in North Carolina in 2015 are convinced that Americans are really to blame - and only because of their attitude toward the rest of the world.
The American nation is a nation of self-satisfied bastards who, in the eyes of the majority of the world, have a moral category of "scum" on the genetic level, which shapes their views, their way of life, their attitude towards other peoples, their policies.
However, it was not easy for other users to guess which channel preferred to watch most commentators.
And another commentator has suggested that the reason people hate the US is the rejection of medicines.
Another commentator, who was familiar with the experiments in the North Carolina lab, easily believed that the United States was responsible and even suggested how to deal with the country.
The current coronavirus was developed in the United States in 2015.
And anyone in whose family someone died of a coronavirus can boldly sue the US for compensation.
... >
The news that the coronavirus has arrived in the United States is very positive.
Obama's Coronavirus Kills Americans.
In 2015, it was modified in the United States to be able to shock people in China.
It was previously only known from bats.
He eventually moved to the United States, where he worked as a producer.
But there is a suggestion that the US invented coronavirus not only for China, but also for other countries.
Each nation has its own distinct strain.
It was released in the United States in 2015.
China decided to break down, put in a coronavirus.
Some of these have been developed for different nationalities.
China has succeeded, and it has pushed into European and Arab countries.
The virus was in the capsule, someone released it.
Look for those who will benefit.
In fact, so far, the virus supposedly created in 2015 has been discussed only by politicians and scientists far from the laboratories.
So far, experts in the field have not published the results of strain comparisons.
Even before people learned about the research in the North Carolina lab, they were building theories about where coronavirus came from, and the natural causes had nothing to do with it.
In their search, the main suspects were God, Putin and revolutionary Marxists.
There are other considerations in this regard.
Before the coronavirus spread to the world and caused a pandemic, social network users began to speculate about who was behind it.
They were shot down by Bill Gates and his wife.