New strain COVID19
Okay, round two, wave three.
Gotcha.
Comments 5
I wonder if the vaccines being developed against this variety are protected?
And it 's going to be like flu, different every year, and you have to guess the combination of strains.
That 's the same question that I asked you, and I' m going to plug into Picabou.
Bayan
Okay, so, what, the vaccine comes out, or... still fresh, three varieties?
The interesting thing is that because of the coronavirus, people are being isolated, Europeans are being stopped moving within the EU, but refugees are entering this shop, are they sterile?
Trees, Billy?
https: / / www.rbc.ru / society / 20 / 12 / 2020 / 5fdf49689a794728707a71...
Who said it would be easy?
How many times I owe the same thing in the same text!
Correct
The funny thing is that markets are on the hays and oil is up.
And how strange it is for the English to crack their noses and such a coincidence.
Looks like the virus is some kind of business project.
Only different countries have developed a vaccine, just as the virus miraculously mutated.
It's obviously good for someone.
Mutations are reported throughout the year.
Why look for clues where he's not?
It 's an example of one big city, but one big city.
If such scales are real (not fake news), think about who they are benefiting (nationally).
He's mutated dozens of times.
There used to be no red people.
There were no blue eyes.
None at all.
And then hundreds of mutations, and one of them, stuck in the population to the present day.
The same virus, one of the mutations, has already infected 1,000 people, entered the taste.
Clearly, this is beneficial to the virus.
Because all viruses and living organisms mutate.
Those bastards found a way to screw up business again... though that's probably another thing.
WHO has commented on British authorities' announcement of a new COVID-19 strain
Newcomer?
Satellite V.
Test batch of vaccine for British scientists.
There 's a way to fundamentally solve the problem with the new virus - to make the island sink.