COVID-19 has biological weapons characteristics
The 2019 coronavirus is 96% the same as the natural coronavirus of the fly.
However, in addition to this theory, there is a theory that the bat virus was artificially edited to spread from person to person.
In this discussion it is difficult to "separate grains from weeds" because there were comments that 4% of human coronavirus is identical to HIV, etc.
But there is also an unshakeable truth - coronavirus infection is a compelling reason to recall the need for greater transparency in the field of bacteriological weapons.
The whole world is aware of the threat of the use of biological (bacteriological) weapons and the uncontrolled spread of epidemics - there is a convention on the prohibition of these weapons..
Most countries in the world, including the Russian Federation and the United States, participate in this document, and for some time the United States has ceased to allow inspections in this area.
It turns out that the world public and the relevant world institutions do not know what research is being done there.
This is what ultimately creates information that coronavirus is man-made and artificial.
Everyone knows full well that the US has repeatedly tested the power of biological weapons on its population, even its own, and the first such operation occurred in 1950, under President Harry S. Truman, when the US military sent a boat with contaminated tubes to San Francisco.
According to Publico, the U.S. Navy spent a week spraying their contents with firesticks, and similar experiments were carried out on residents of Key West and Calhoun.
As a result, local residents began to suffer from health problems, and the truth about the biological attack was not revealed until 1976.
Such examples are enough to speak of intentional infection.
Again, it was previously reported that American scientists had conducted an experiment in Santa Clara County, Northern California, which in the United States was one of the first to record the spread of coronavirus, and 2.5-4.2% of the county's population had antibodies to coronavirus, implying that they may have carried COVID-19.
The only answer, whether it is true or not, is unlikely to ever be... Today's official version is that the source of the new virus is believed to be the urban market in Wuhan, where seafood, as well as meat from wild and exotic animals, are traded.
In nature, bats are the main carriers of the coronaviruses.
The virus is believed to have spread to humans.
But an alternative view was immediately published that the new coronavirus was a by-product of work on biological weapons that accidentally left the walls of the laboratory.
According to this version, the source of the primary contamination could have been the research laboratory of the China Center for Disease Control and Prevention near the seafood market.
The laboratory contains, among other animals, more than 600 infectious and dangerous bats for research purposes.
Biological weapons are a terrible force capable of destroying the entire population of our planet.
We would like to recall that earlier after the statement by Russian President Vladimir Putin that the US is collecting samples of bio-materials from Russians (and not only, more than 400 Pentagon bio-laboratories around the world) and unclear excuses from Americans that this is done "for scientific purposes," Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Sergey Ryabkov explicitly stated that "a number of States have disguised biological weapons under natural outbreaks of infectious diseases among humans, animals or plants" and that our country needs to be prepared to reflect the threat "- this statement was made by S. Ryabkov at the international conference on biosecurity as early as 2017.
Therefore, no matter how the world emerges from this pandemic, attention to biological weapons must still take its place next to, or at the forefront of, nuclear weapons.
As I mentioned earlier, bacteriological (biological) weapons have a long history of use.
Clearly, with the advent of new biotechnologies, someone will still have a desire (indeed, already) to circumvent the nuclear apocalypse with the latest biological weapons.
Its development and experimental application, even in today 's information world, is quite easily concealed under the guise of fighting epidemics and developing vaccines against infectious diseases.
The new data published in China about a possible patient "zero" - a married couple who arrived from Hawaii - is a fairly strong stimulus to the conspiracy theory of the virus - the first symptoms began there, but they did not see a doctor, and then the relatives and their first doctor fell ill.
The second wave of contamination came from the US military, who were rushed to Wuhan and returned to the United States a week later.
It is interesting that in Italy the outbreak of the crown began about a month before the Chinese Wuhan, and in the United States with a difference of two weeks with Italy...
COVID-19 has affected the lives of billions of people around the world: border closures, business closures, national protectionism at the state level, and the destruction of supply chains that could have a tangible impact not just on the economy but on the global food market.
Political decisions already taken today are provoking a food crisis, which could lead to a large-scale humanitarian disaster.
The most interesting thing is that there is enough food in the world to feed everyone, but the question is where and how much it will be.
And if the world does face food shortages, those who are already undernourished will suffer the most.
This is particularly the case in Africa, where food imports to countries in the African region could fall to 25 per cent.
Moreover, the pandemic is rapidly returning the countries of the "golden billion" in the 18th and 19th centuries: the appalling quality of medical care, the shift in ethics: with hospitals overloading old and weakened patients, they will not be resuscitated.
It is becoming clear that it is not citizens' apathy that has led to this, but public policy in the organization of the entire health system.
After the pandemic, all countries will have to choose whether to be guided in the future only by their national interests or to rejoin global alliances.
The West, which has been unable to cope with either the virus or the economic crisis, is waiting for a powerful wave of left-wing sentiment - a crisis that calls into question the dominant model of social order itself.
And if the new cold war does not stop even in the face of a pandemic, what will happen after it?
Not surprisingly, if China does announce sanctions, Russia has already been accused of dismantling the US health-care system and of wanting to enslave Italy - yes, of course, it does not want to admit its own mistakes and lose hegemony.
It will take at least a year to develop a vaccine, and statements by the British and Americans that they have almost developed it can only mean that the drug was prepared in advance.
Yeah, who's the first to make a vaccine, that's why it's worth it!
Remember Marx that capital goes to any crime for 300 percent profit...