China had nothing to do with it: a British scientist suspected that coronavirus had always been
Recent findings by virologists in Spain and Italy, who found traces of coronavirus long before its introduction in China, suggest that the PRC may not be a source of infection, writes The Daily Telegraph, citing Oxford scholar Tom Jefferson.
According to Jefferson's hypothesis, coronavirus has long been widespread throughout the globe in a "passive" state and has awakened due to prevailing climatic conditions.
According to The Daily Telegraph, there is growing evidence that the virus already existed in Asia.
The publication recalls that last week, Spanish virologists stated that they found traces of coronavirus in sewage collected in March 2019, nine months before the infection was detected in China.
Italian scientists also found evidence of the virus in Milan and Turin as early as December, weeks before the first case was detected.
According to Dr. Jefferson, many viruses are passive throughout the globe and awaken under suitable conditions.
This means, among other things, that they can disappear as quickly as they appeared.
Jefferson cites the extinct SARS virus as an example.
I think the virus was already here, "here," that is, everywhere.
It is quite possible that we are dealing with a passive virus that has arisen from natural conditions, "-
The Daily Telegraph quotes a scientist.
Jefferson notes that in February a case of coronavirus infection was reported on a cruise ship off the Falkland Islands, with all passengers being tested for coronavirus. "
Strange situations like this have happened with the Spanish flu.
In 1918, about 30 per cent of the population of Western Samoa who had no contact with the outside world died....................
Notes Jefferson.
According to the scientist, the virus can be transmitted not only by air-droppings, but also through sewage systems and public toilets.
Jefferson notes that research into the causes of frequent coronavirus outbreaks in food plants and meat plants may help to identify new ways of transmitting the virus: it is possible that public toilets, together with low temperatures, create favorable conditions for infection.