Who really is responsible for the coronavirus pandemic?
The coronavirus pandemic is like a live-action blockbuster script with a fantastic but realistic plot.
Unfamiliar to most minds, the disease is spreading at an alarming rate around the world, destroying the economy, depriving health, taking lives.
Fear and panic prevail in the hotbeds, but even those who are healthy are completely absorbed in the looming threat and are constantly watching through the screens.
This epidemic is an absolute reflection of our modern society and a vision for the future.
All processes are global, and the human habitat is extremely compact.
Viruses of both natural and artificial origin have little competition for destructive power.
When traditional weapons are restrained by nuclear parity, nature is restrained by technology, the virus remains invisible and invisible.
A villain who wants to use it for his own purposes does not need to declare war on anyone and even come out of the shadows - it is enough to have an antidote.
Former United Nations expert on bacteriological weapons Igor Nikulin stated that coronavirus was created in the United States in 2015 at the Pentagon's secret laboratory, the Walter Reed Army Research Institute in Fort Detrick.
In 2015, the journal Nature reported that a laboratory at Fort Detrick in the United States had successfully experimented with modifying the coronavirus of a Chinese flying mouse, which could enter human cells without an intermediate animal.
In the same article it was stated that the authors consider such experiments to be extremely dangerous. "
, he said.
However, it is unlikely that this disclosure will cause any harm to the alleged developers.
There will be no effect on China's direct indictment of the US for taking a coronavirus.
For others, the threat is real.
Remember the five handshakes rule?
It now has a special meaning, metaphorically transforming the ordinary way of life in atavism.
The traditional form of greeting is deadly when the infection is so easily transmitted.
And while COVID-19 will undoubtedly be defeated, it will be replaced by new viruses, perhaps even more agile in their destructive capabilities - more contagious, more deadly.
The anti-virus measures that are being applied and discussed in the world's megacities these days will take extreme forms.
And the survivors of Rome, London, Paris, and Moscow will again be placed in strict quarantine.
This means that the most harmless contact between people will be a test involving many precautions.
Even today Moscow is a rather boring place.
Theatres, cinemas, clubs, concerts and exhibitions were closed.
No show and just a messy fight.
Free of mass activities and entertainment, the city is transformed from a hedonistic mecca into a tiny, enclosed zone.
Now, without its temptations, it is more appropriate to compare it to a place of detention or confinement than to a place of life.
And it became clear what really attracted us here.
However, the development of technology makes deprivation almost invisible to life.
It is now possible to work from home, study at school, buy various goods, including food already prepared.
The time of the epidemic is an open window to our future, in which dangers are increasingly sophisticated and invisible, but are compensated by scientific and technological developments.
To watch a movie, communicate or make a purchase, you no longer need a cinema, a cafe or a shop - just have a computer or a phone.
The epidemic, more than anyone else, exposes our path.
We have become vulnerable to the virus by becoming part of a single global world, connected by transport corridors, goods, information.
Instead of family ties, we combine our time and leisure with random people.
Even in the midst of the epidemics of the Middle Ages, they reigned in local territories, affecting first and foremost the inhabitants of major cities.
And the deaf Volga, Siberian or Far Eastern village today, as it was a hundred years ago, is completely protected from viruses and from food shortages and other calamities of our time.
But the thing is, we don 't want to live there.
For the modern Moskvitch, the Londoners, Parisians and Romans are much closer and more understandable to the compatriots of the provinces.
We seek where there are opportunities for consumption and pleasure, where there are fewer difficulties, and where the original environment is replaced by useful and pleasant goods.
We want to have fashionable clothes, modern technology, short travel time.
And, by coincidence, it is the travelers who are the first to be struck by coronavirus.
It doesn 't matter who' s behind the outbreak.
It doesn't matter when the next attack comes.
What 's important is that we' ve become the enabling environment, we 've come to the risk.