Fake: Masks cause CO2 poisoning and are toxic to children
Social media users are distributing a video in which a Del Bigtree checks the level of CO2 under the mask of an 11-year-old child.
Bigtree claims that the masks are toxic to children because they contain a huge amount of carbon dioxide.
The video shows that at a CO2 concentration of more than 5,000 ppm, poisoning and oxygen starvation can develop, while the roller instrument shows a value of more than 8,000 ppm.
In a few days, the video was watched by more than 1,300,000 people, 62,000 of whom distributed it.
In fact, the sensor in the roller measures the concentration of CO2 in the exhaled air, where it is much higher than during inhalation.
However, the oxygen concentration during breathing through the mask is at the normal level.
The mask is not capable of causing CO2 intoxication and is not dangerous for children aged 2 years.
At the beginning of the video, Del Bigtree says:
I'll do the same as that man.
and place a CO2 measurement device under the boy 's mask.
This is a similar experiment by American Jeff Neff, who used a similar sensor to determine the supposedly critically low oxygen level under his mask.
The results of Neff's measurements were refuted by Factcheck.org.
What is wrong with measuring carbon dioxide and oxygen concentrations by such sensors under a medical mask?
The sensor, placed under various masks, captures the exhaled air, which contains a small amount of oxygen and includes other gases such as carbon dioxide and nitrogen.
"What it measures is what it emits - gases that increase in concentration in enclosed space," says Thomas Fuller, an associate professor of medical science at the University of Illinois and a member of the American Association of Industrial Hygiene, in a comment from Factcheck.
In addition, the sensor may simply fail to respond to changes in oxygen and CO2 concentrations under the mask: it may take about 10 seconds to record such changes, and the human exhales much more frequently.
Thus, the previous values fail to be dropped and with each new exhaust the device shows a cumulative result - the carbon dioxide concentrations increase continuously both under the fabric mask and under the protective screen.
Consequently, the video experiment The Bigtree Case is manipulative and its results do not match the real picture.
Thomas Fuller also stressed that it is indeed harder for people to breathe air through the mask precisely because of the resistance of the material (tissue, etc.), but the concentration of oxygen in the air inhaled through the mask is the same as without the mask.
Wearing masks does not lead to CO2 intoxication or oxygen deficiency
The World Health Organization has refuted the myth that wearing masks leads to CO2 intoxication and lack of oxygen.
Long-term use of medical masks may be inconvenient.
However, this does not result in CO2 intoxication and lack of oxygen.
Wear a medical mask, make sure it sits properly, is thick enough, and you can breathe normally.
Do not use the disposable mask again and always change it as soon as it becomes wet, "states WHO.
In addition, in one small study published in the journal Respiratory Physiology and Neuroscience, twenty subjects in surgical masks walked on the treadmill for one hour.
Scientists measured the concentration of oxygen and carbon dioxide in their blood, their breathing rate and heart rate, and their body temperature.
After that hour, scientists found no significant change in the evidence.
Foreign experts in chemistry and medicine have emphasized that carbon dioxide molecules freely pass through the fabric of the mask, as they are much smaller than the virus molecules.
A normal gas exchange is maintained during breathing.
"Only high concentrations of CO2 can cause significant harm to human health," says Bill Carroll, an associate professor of chemistry at the University of Indiana in an interview with Health.
Carroll points out that CO2 is present in the atmosphere at about 0.04%, but it becomes dangerous only when its concentration exceeds 10%.
But there are categories of people who don 't have to wear fabric masks: these are children under the age of two, those who have difficulty breathing, and those who can' t take off the mask without help.
Moreover, the author of the video experiment with the boy, Del Bigtree, an American television and film director, is one of the leaders of the anti-vaccine movement in the United States.
Throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, Bigtree spread conspiracy theories about the origin of the virus and urged his audience to ignore the advice of health authorities.
StopFake had previously exposed similar fakes that wearing long-term medical masks caused a lack of oxygen in the blood and that masks and gloves caused the development of bacteria and tuberculosis.