There will be marijuana to help patients with COVID-19..
Augusta University is looking for a way to save the lives of patients with the most severe form of coronavirus.
In the United States, they are looking for ways to save the lives of patients with the most severe form of COVID-19.
Some American scientists argue that one of the ingredients in marijuana - cannabidiol - can help.
According to scientists at the University of Augusta, cannabidiol comes to the aid of the most severe cases of coronavirus - when the patient begins lung complications.
Now when you 're diagnosed with COVID-19, you' re first sent home.
You get to the hospital if you have trouble breathing and the breath is so bad that you can't get from bed to the latrine.
At the hospital, we first perform supportive therapy, until the last moment trying not to intubate the patient, "says Dr. Jack Yu, a professor at the University of Augusta.
Scientists at the University of Augusta cite alarming statistics: a significant number of patients with artificial lung ventilation do not survive.
"For example, a 52-year-old doctor who had the disease spent four weeks ventilating her lungs, and when she woke up, she found her legs and fingers amputated," says Dr. Yu...................
According to a study, cannabis herb contains cannabidiol that can alleviate the illness of heavy patients.
This component of marijuana has an anti-inflammatory effect and is able to prevent cytokine storm, a hyperreaction of the immune system that causes severe side effects, including difficulty breathing.
"Preliminary data show that, in combination with supportive treatment, cannabidiol can be very effective," says Babak Baban, University of Augusta, "It can be used at the most severe stage of the disease."
Mouse tests showed that cannabidiol improved lung function.
The cytokine level in the blood has decreased, while the oxygen level has increased..
Scientists intend to continue clinical trials on animals.
The mouse is not the best model for this disease.
The cones are better suited, and now we plan to test them.
"It is the best animal for medical experimental research," says Professor Baban.
He stressed that if tests on animals were to produce the desired results, scientists would prepare for tests on humans.
Cannabidiol is not a component of cannabis and therefore has no psychotropic effect.
This ensures its safe use, "the speaker of Voice of America told.
Researchers warn that, while cannabinoids are readily available, they should never be used for the treatment of coronavirus in the home.
Although cannabidiol can be purchased without a prescription, it cannot be used at home.
The initial stage of COVID-19 is characterized by an attempt by the virus to make it difficult for the immune system to "detect," says Jack Y. "...". "..".. ".". ".". "..". ".".. ".". ".."
The next stage of testing will take place at the University of Georgia, scientists say.
If successful, cannabidiol could be released quickly enough, as it has already been approved by the US Food and Drug Administration for the treatment of seizures in children.
The Voice of America since 2019.
In 2011-2018 he worked as a political analyst in the political department of the Independent newspaper in Moscow.
Hubert Humphrey Award for Journalism.
He attended the Walter Cronkite School of Journalism and Mass Communication at Arizona State University.
Dear visitors to the forum, please use your Facebook account to participate in the discussion.
Comments are premoderated, their appearance on the site may take some time.