US government issued SARS-CoV coronavirus in 2003
Jan Matejko.
Alchemist.
18671867. sandiogiy.alchimikmateiko.yang
The patent for the detection and selection of the SARS-CoV coronavirus belongs to the US government, on March 19 the correspondent of IA Red Spring reports.
The document states that a patent application for the SARS-CoV coronavirus was filed on 25 April 2003.
The patent contains information on
Re-isolated human coronavirus (SARS-CoV), agent of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS).
Also provided are the nucleic acid sequence of the SARS-CoV genome and the amino acid sequence of the open SARS-CoV reading frame, and how these molecules can be used to detect SARS-CoV and detect infections with them. "
, as reported in the document.
It was developed by the United States Department of Health and Human Services.
The following entries on this document are dated 2004 and 2007.
The invention relates to the detection of coronavirus associated with severe acute respiratory syndrome.
The document specifies that these are spherical coronaviruses with a diameter of 100-160 nm.
Photograph of the SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus from the laboratory of the Novosibirsk State Scientific Centre for Virology and Biotechnology "Vector" "Vector" biotech-virus "Vector" "Vector" "Vir"" "State"
Photo: Press Service
The size of the SARS-CoV coronavirus correlates with the size of the virus on the recently published photograph of the SARS-Cov-2 coronavirus (COVID-19) by staff of the laboratory of the Novosibirsk State Scientific Centre for Virology and Biotechnology "Vector," with a diameter of approximately 100 nm.
Photo of SARS-CoVSARS-CoVVVVVV
Image: US7220852B1 Patent
The document goes on to describe in detail the SARS-CoV coronavirus and its genome, as well as its detection methods.
The full genome of the SARS-Cov-2 coronavirus was published at the University of California, Santa Cruz on January 29, 2020.
According to the authors of a publication in Nature, the genome sequences of both severe pneumonia viruses belonging to the same family: SARS-Cov and SARS-Sov2 are quite close.
If I were reincarnated, I would want to be reincarnated into a deadly virus to solve the problem of overcrowding.
Note, former UN expert on bacteriological weapons Igor Nikulin stated that coronavirus was developed in the United States in 2015.
In 2015, the journal Nature published an article about a successful experiment by American scientists to modify the coronavirus of the Chinese flying mouse when a protein gene linked to human protein was inserted into its genome sequence.
As a result of the modification, the virus was able to enter human cells directly.
The journal Nature has published some explanations.