Macaques, pangolins, bats: why scientists have not yet found the host species COVID-19
The COVID-19 pandemic has been ongoing for more than two months, with the first cases reported in January 2019.
Despite this long period of time, scientists have not yet been able to reliably identify the animal source of the new type of coronavirus from which the disease has spread to humans.
It remains unclear whether the animal was sold at the Wuhan fish market, as the Chinese version states, or whether the contamination occurred during contact in the wild.
Haytech explains how scientists are looking for the source of COVID-19 - and why it has not yet been found.
As COVID-19 rapidly spreads around the world, much of the focus is on stopping this process and treating people who have contracted it.
But virologists say there 's another important area of work - looking for future host animals.
Scientists say that it may be possible for the virus to enter a new species and mutate to re-infect humans in the future.
The World Health Organization (WHO) asserts - and many scientists agree - that all data points to the natural origin of the virus.
However, there is no reliable evidence as to how or where the first person was.
According to the official (Chinese) version, the first case of infection was recorded in the fish market in the city of Wuhan, which was hit by the epidemic.
Many species of marine and freshwater animals, including some terrestrial mammals, are sold.
Wild animals are widely traded around the world - before they enter the market, someone has to catch the animal and prepare it for sale.
There are many human and wildlife contacts in this chain that could potentially lead to the infection and spread of a new type of disease, as occurred with the SARS-1 epidemic in China in 2002-2003.
Addressing the problem of controlling the sale and harvesting of wildlife globally could be a way to stop the future pandemic before it begins.
Therefore, it is important for scientists to determine which animal was responsible for the disease.
Intermediate medium
There is strong evidence that the virus originated in the bats (Rousettus aegyptiacus).
The biggest mystery remains how it got from bats to humans.
In support of this hypothesis, bats are the vectors of hundreds of species of coronaviruses.
For example, in 2017, scientists discovered a "rich gene pool of bat coronaviruses with bats" in a cave in China, a possible source of the pandemic.
However, the bats themselves, as far as scientists know, are not sick - they are the hosts through which viruses are transmitted to other animals.
Sometimes they mutate along the way to adapt to their new master, and sometimes they can jump without change.
Coronaviruses are known to infect mammals and birds, including dogs, chickens, cattle, pigs, cats, and lizards.
The vast majority of researchers believe that the new type of coronavirus originated in the wild and was probably transmitted to humans through an intermediate species.
But no one has yet found this virus in the wild, so other explanations cannot be completely ruled out.
According to Arindja Banerjee, a coronavirus researcher at McMaster University in Hamilton, Ontario, the only way to say with certainty which animal the virus originated from is to find it among wild animals.
"Other approaches will only give you unconfirmed information," he says.
One way in which virologists can try to predict potential hosts is computer-based 3D modeling.
Recently, using this method, as well as laboratory testing, scientists have found that SARS-CoV-2 virus uses a spike protein to bind to an enzyme receptor on the surface of certain animal cells to enter a cell.
If the ACE2 receptor is a door handle, the spike protein is the key that opens it.
3D modeling allows scientists to determine which animals have ACE2 - and, as a consequence, which of them may be carriers of the virus.
Researchers have already achieved some results using this method: in particular, they have identified several species that have ACE2 and that may be infected with a new type of coronavirus.
These include lizards, cows, buffalo, goats, sheep, pigeons and pigs.
Another method used by virologists is laboratory.
It involves trying to infect the cells of different animals with the virus and monitoring which species can carry it.
For example, in a recent experiment, scientists found that ACE2 was found in pigs, cysts, and bats.
However, normal mice cannot be infected with COVID-19.
Main contenders
The main challenge is not to test domestic animals for the ability to carry COVID-19, although this is also an essential part of the work, but to find carriers in the wild.
Pangolins were among the first animals suspected of being intermediate.
Two teams of researchers from China found similarities between SARS-CoV-2 and coronaviruses extracted from the tissue of Malay lizards (Manis javanica) that were confiscated from traders.
However, pangolin coronaviruses were too genetically distant from SARS-CoV-2 to be considered its ancestor.
But the fact that pangolins are the only wild mammals other than bats known to scientists to be related to coronaviruses like SARS-CoV-2 cannot be excluded from the list of applicants.
Scientists are looking for similar coronaviruses in other animals.
Some researchers have attempted to find ACE2 enzymes in frozen wild animal tissues stored in laboratories.
Preliminary results of such tests indicate that many species are potentially infected with COVID-19.
In laboratory experiments, scientists have shown that cats, bats (Rousettus aegyptiacus), rodents, rhesus macaques, and hamsters can carry SARS-CoV-2.
According to virologists, even if the virus leaps into a new species, it is not certain that it will reproduce and persist in this animal.
There are many factors that must work precisely to make an animal not only a master, but also a master capable of re-infecting humans.
Therefore, finding the main and intermediate COVID-19 carrier remains a challenge.
Read more: