How the US Helped China Examine Coronavirus
The United States of America, the world 's most powerful country with the most advanced medicine (as everyone thought), is being struck every day by the COVID-19 coronavirus infection - on the population, the health system, the medical system, the economy.
Finally - and this is what matters to America's ambitions - the reputation of the country as a whole.
The United States, which has moved closer to Italy, has firmly placed first in the sad ranking - more than 700,000 people have already been infected with the virus, about 24,000 have died.
Worldwide, the number of confirmed cases exceeded two million.
It is clear that this figure needs to be multiplied - it is relative, because only a quantitative test can reveal the real picture.
But it is not and is not foreseen.
An examination of America's domestic "flights" - why they happened - is likely to take place later when diseases and deaths decline.
But US authorities are now saying that China should be punished for lying and concealing information about the spread of deadly contagion.
A few days ago, US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo told German Bild that the culprit of the pandemic has yet to be found, and that the PRC has "failed to provide timely" information about this infection and epidemic.
As Pompeo said, a global debate is needed in the future to understand how "this virus began and where."
The main message is that "the perpetrators will be brought to justice."
A holiday for Lavrov and lessons from Lukashenko
America's congressmen are also demanding to deal with China and the ear disease that shook the world.
According to U.S. Senate Internal Security Committee chairman Ron Johnson, the deputies began investigating the origins and spread of the coronavirus and the role of China and the World Health Organization (WHO) in concealing information.
And Senator Rick Scott made the point very clear: "We can't trust Communist China, we also learned that we can't trust WHO because they lied to us."
Britain has joined the chorus of just retribution for the ear disease, threatening Beijing with trillions of dollars in claims.
However, the anti-Chinese investigation has only just begun, and with the clear accusations against Beijing, there is already some confusion.
According to The Washington Examiner, "Taxpayer-funded animal experiments are related to Chinese 'wet markets' and the laboratory in Wuhan," "the National Institutes of Health (US) funded two laboratories testing animals at the Wuhan Institute of Virology... Some of these studies included studies of coronavirus in bats that... could have catalyzed the outbreak."
Moreover, it was approved "to conduct another 22 animal experiments in other laboratories in China funded by taxpayers (US), and reports indicated that experimental animals from some of these institutions were sold after being used in 'wet markets' for consumption."
The percentage of heavy patients is rising
As reported by The Washington Examiner with reference to the White Coat Waste Project, as early as "2015, the U.S. Department of Agriculture purchased live cats and dogs for taxpayers' money in Chinese meat markets similar to the Ouhani market, which linked the early cases of COVID-19.
The Department also paid for the killing of animals and their transportation to the United States for experiments in which their remains were fed to other animals. "
Only one such project cost the US Treasury $22 million and was closed only last year.
"I am now disgusted to learn that, for many years, the US government has funded dangerous and brutal animal experiments at the Wuhan Institute of Virology that may have contributed to the global spread of coronavirus, as well as research in other Chinese laboratories over which the US authorities have little control," Florida Congressman Matt Gaetz's newspaper quoted.
How a pandemic affects people's minds
So it turns out that the states themselves have for many years funded dangerous experiments, including animal coronavirus, both directly at the two laboratories in Ouhani and at home.
In January 2018, the embassy sent American scientists to the Wuhan Institute of Virology - exactly where US taxpayers' money was invested to experiment with animal viruses.
It is clear that this is the only reason why the Chinese have allowed Americans into their holy shrine of virology.
Otherwise, why?
After a visit by scientists and diplomats to the Uhane laboratories, secret dispatches were sent to Washington.
They reported problems with laboratory safety and expressed concern about the lack of qualified staff.
It has also been noted that bats have been tested in laboratories for coronavirus and its potential transmission to humans is of concern.
According to The Washington Post, American virologists have visited their colleagues in Ouhani on several occasions.
(For example, love of art.)
By the way, a note about this visit was on the English version of the lab site, but the Chinese removed it the other day.
According to the newspaper, the State Department rejected her comments.
The Baltic States are fighting the virus and "evil from Moscow"
The United States Department of Defense has responded to these reports and has engaged in discussions among members of the government and MPs.
The Pentagon stated that the SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus appears to be of natural origin, although there is no 100% certainty.
So there 's another important aspect to this whole blurry story that plunged the world into the apocalypse: if coronavirus is natural, from animals, it' s one aria.
And if it 's artificial, it' s different.
This is already the creation or attempt to create some kind of biological weapon.
Who?
What for?
Against who?
Beijing, however, does not sit down either.
According to American newspapers, China's secrecy of the story of the coronavirus outbreak (even the WHO was closed to the laboratory until the end of February) made the internal outbreak a global pandemic.
But in addition to secrecy, China is actively spreading lies, pretending that the virus originated somewhere outside of it.
The most ridiculous lie of the Chinese was that American soldiers brought the virus to Wuhan during a military sports tournament in October 2019, "the Washington Examiner denounced.
Putin Against Deception: Late, Saving, and Confusing
To be fair, yes, Beijing has taken steps to secure laboratory research in Wuhan.
According to the Western press, Uhani Shi Zhenli, Deputy Director of the Institute of Virology, whose article on the virus was only made public on 10 January 2002 by a Shanghai laboratory, was harassed by the authorities and disappeared from public view.
The PRC authorities stated that the publication of scientific papers on COVID-19 would be strictly controlled.
And two Chinese universities have already had to withdraw their work on this topic from the Internet.
Now any publications must be harmonized with the state bodies and not contradict the Communist Party's policy.
But, judging by the increasingly visible picture of US cooperation with China in the Huan laboratories and the disclosure of secret diplomatic cables, it seems that the most important thing for Americans to do now is not to get on their own.
According to documents from the United States Agency for International Development, a $200 million US government support program that included laboratories at the Wuhan Institute of Virology investigating bat coronavirus, the White House unexpectedly closed down a month before the outbreak of the epidemic in China.
It is painfully reminiscent of a white powder bottle in the hands of former US Secretary of State Colin Powell, which he demonstrated at a meeting of the UN Security Council, asserting that Saddam Hussein has nuclear weapons and is about to disturb the world.
But when Hussein was hanged and the oil wells were in American hands, nobody was interested that there were no nuclear weapons in Baghdad.
And in the test tube, it was probably a regular washing powder.
Alla Yaroshinskaya