One mutant more: a new, potentially dangerous, Covid-19 strain is spreading around the world.
In a regiment of newborn coronaviruses, another variant with a stable set of mutations was found in 11 countries.
It was named "B 1.525."
It is most common in Denmark and the United Kingdom, followed by Nigeria, the United States and France.
It is most prevalent in Nigeria and Jordan.
This is followed by Ghana and Australia.
This is not surprising - Africa has the most evolutionary strain of the virus.
There 's a lot of people out there who are already sick, so it' s hard for the pathogen to find new hosts, and any mutations that make this process even a little easier are immediately entrenched.
Variant B 1.525 carries many different mutations, but the most important scientists seem to have several, mainly in the Spike protein, which the virus needs to bind to ACE2 cell receptors, and which is primarily targeted by the most effective, so-called neutralizing antibodies.
The first is E484K, a so-called care mutation that makes the virus resistant to certain antibodies.
It also has two new coronavirus strains, Brazilian and South African, and recently independently appeared in British.
Obviously, it gives the virus a significant advantage - the ability to infect those who are already infected (not necessarily causing a disease or at least a serious disease), so it can be assumed that we will see it again and again in new versions of SARS-CoV-2.
Second, the deletions (deposition of nucleotides) at positions 69-70, a characteristic feature of the British strain that allows it to be detected by certain PCR test systems, which is much cheaper than fully decrypting the sequence.
New mutation Q677H (glutamine replacement with histidine).
It has appeared several times in different branches of the coronavirus, but has not been established.
It 's located in a place where a special enzyme sitting on the cell surface cuts through a spike protein - a necessary step for the virus to penetrate the cell.
It is suggested that replacing glutamine with histidine may increase the availability of this site for protease.
Another new modification of F888L (replacing phenylalanine with leucine) is in a part of a protein called an internal fusion peptide (IFR).
IFR is needed to secure the virus that attacks the cell inside it.
After the cell protease thins the patch, the IFR fragment remains sticking out.
Due to conformational changes (shape changes) of the spay protein, the viral particle is pulled closer to the surface, facilitating membrane fusion.
Even before fusion, IFR penetrates under the cell membrane and moorings there, preventing the virus from accidentally breaking away from the victim cell.
It is suggested that Q677H and F888L help the coronavirus to penetrate the cells more effectively, making it more contagious.
Whether this is the case is not known, but there is no data on the actual dynamics of the spread of the new option.....
Whether these mutations affect antibody resistance is also unclear.
Obviously, laboratories will soon be testing this, especially if the number of new cases of B 1.525 will increase.
But the presence of E484K practically guarantees resistance to some of the antibodies - like the Brazilian and South African strains.
It is to be expected that this species of coronavirus is not the last, and in the foreseeable future we will see new varieties emerging from its various branches.
The apparent acceleration of the SARS-CoV-2 mutation process is not due to the virus mutating faster - the rate of change remained the same as at the beginning of the pandemic.
The reason for the rapid emergence of new strains is the steadily but slowly increasing number of people immune to the old versions of coronavirus.
It is becoming increasingly difficult for the pathogen to find new victims, and varieties that, through some change, may be slightly better able to infect people or escape the immune response, spread faster than others and eventually displace them.
Based on these improved modifications of the virus, new modifications are formed that may give pathogens properties that are not possible for the old variants.
Such new properties cannot occur in one step, but once the virus has accumulated a certain number of modifications, such a qualitative transition will be possible..
This is a very dangerous situation, as coronaviruses 2.0 will be able to launch a new pandemic, in parallel with the ongoing pandemic caused by the previous variants.
We have already seen evidence of this in Africa, where a study by Novavax, a subunit vaccine developer, showed that about 30% of volunteers had antibodies against coronavirus, which did not prevent them from relaying the new South African variety B 1.135.
Moreover, research by Novavax and another vaccine developer, Johnson Johnson, revealed that version B 1.135 accounts for about 95% of all infections in recent months.
In Europe, the British strain is spreading rapidly: in Germany, where strict quarantine has been in place since late December, the B 1.1.7 share from 22 to 29 January averaged 5.8% of all cases of coronavirus detected by PCR.
In Denmark at the beginning of December, the prevalence of B 1.1.7 was less than 0.5 per cent, and at the end of January it was already 12 per cent.
Quarantine measures are also in place (schools and restaurants are closed, large numbers of people work from home and so on), and although the number R is on average 0.78 - that is, 0.78 per person infected, for B 1.1.7 it is 1.07.
In other words, the British version is expanding exponentially and displacing older versions of the coronavirus.
This is not good, because in order to slow down the spread of the new version of the virus and keep R below unit, the current restrictive measures will not be enough and will have to be strengthened rather than weakened.
In addition, the virus continues to evolve, and it can be assumed that the E484K mutation will appear independently in the British strain and in other countries.
Partial withdrawal from immunity formed after illness or vaccination will allow such viruses to reproduce in the past and accumulate new changes.