Study: COVID-19 immunity, which gives antibodies, may disappear within weeks
Research carried out by scientists from the University of Sorbonne, the University Hospital Pitier-Salpetrier, the National Institute of Health and Medical Research and the Pasteur Institute shows a rapid decline in the level of certain antibodies in health workers suffering from moderate forms of COVID-19.
Does this mean that people who have been cured of the light form of COVID will no longer be protected a few weeks later, which can be read in different sources? "
- asked Le Figaro journalist Vincent Bordenav.
"Our study focused exclusively on antibodies," explains Anna-Genevieve Marcellin, a virologist from Pietier-Salpetrier, the last author of the study.
- In particular, IgA antibodies present at the mucous membrane level.
We are showing that their numbers are declining rapidly.
In 15% of the cases we examined, they even disappear after 2 months (out of 26 people in the cohort).
This leads us to believe that a person who has been cured may become infected again within a few months of recovery.
However, this does not mean that after the first infection these people are not protected from severe forms of disease. "
(...) When confronted with a pathogen, the organism usually responds by producing antibodies that neutralize the alien element and prevent its entry into the cells.
This is a "humoral" response.
There are several types of neutralizing antibodies, including IgA, which are mostly found in mucous membranes, but they are not unique.
The authors also noted that IgG antibodies, which are usually considered protective and have a longer life span, were in the same form from 2 to several months after symptoms appeared, "the article states.
(...) In parallel, another so-called 'cellular' reaction develops in the organism.
In fact, cells called T-lymphocytes target and dispose of infected cells, "writes Le Figaro.
(...) Since the beginning of the pandemic, several studies have shown that cellular and human immunity acquired after the first infection was sufficiently strong.
A paper published in Science even mentions protection for at least eight months, a journalist recalls.
"Our work does not conflict with these publications," explains Anna-Genevieve Marcellin.
- But we understand that IgA antibodies play a very important role in preventing transmission.
Therefore, the patient must remain vigilant against barrier gestures. "
The mucous membranes are actually the entry and exit points of the virus.
If mucous membranes no longer contain antibodies that block the virus at a very early stage, a person can actually transmit it until his or her immune system forms a response "learned" at the time of first infection.
In other words, this person may be contagious for some time, not sick.
(...) Medical workers are very often exposed to the virus, and so that they do not become healthy vectors of the disease, "it seems important to stimulate their immune response," says Anna-Genevieva Marcelin.
On the other hand, severe forms of re-infection are rarely recorded.
This means that in almost all cases the immune system functions normally.
During the second infection, she recognizes the virus, begins to produce antibodies and gets rid of the pathogen even before the virus spreads into the body, "the publication summarizes.
Inpressa.ru
Telegram NEWSru.co.il: Most important for the day