Experts assessed the probability of obtaining population immunity from COVID
The development of population immunity from coronavirus is unlikely to be realized soon.
In Russia, too, it is far from being formed, so it is necessary to continue the regime of restrictions and carry out mass vaccination, according to the experts interviewed by the BCRC
When collective immunity emerges
Some countries around the world are unlikely to develop population or collective immunity from COVID-19 coronavirus in the near future, and a reliable vaccine will not be widely available until 2021, according to Bank of America (BofA; available to BCRC) analysts and BCRC experts interviewed.
"The proportion of people with immunity is probably higher than official data [on those who have passed away], but we are still far from the finish line," says BofA.
In their review, BofA analysts suggest a formula by which one can calculate the proportion of sufferers needed to develop collective immunity in a given country:
1-1 / R
where R is the prevalence rate of the disease, that is, how many people are infected by a single infection, and 100% of the population is taken per unit.
According to the consensus opinion of the experts, the COVID-19 coronavirus prevalence rate in the absence of containment measures is 2.5-3.
Thus, if the prevalence rate is 2.5, according to this formula, 60 per cent of the population must be sick in order to develop collective immunity.
"If the proportion of the population immune to infection exceeds the threshold of collective immunity, the average number of people exposed to infection is less than one and the disease does not spread but dies," explained the bank.
In addition, it is very difficult to determine the actual level of COVID-19 immunity in most countries, analysts agree.
First, a significant percentage of those who have passed through are not shown in official statistics.
For example, the confirmed number of Americans infected is over 7 million, or less than 3% of the US population.
However, according to the Institute of Health Analysis and Statistics at the Washington Institute, the total number of cases is about 53.5 million, or 16.3% of the population, reported in BofA.