Who created the Coronavirus in fact.
The FBI has already filed charges.
Friends, I hope not the last time I welcome you to the portal of learning and self-development.
This is where you and I seem to have lived before many seemingly very few real and even crazy conspiracy theories became an official reality.
Is the world upside down?
Yes, we 've long since released our big documentary investigation on this issue, where we said that it' s likely that this coronavirus was created artificially and most likely in the laboratories of either the United States or China, or maybe even both of them together, because each of these countries has the opportunity, and the most important thing is that there 's a reason to do something like this, as you know.
So what was our surprise when we saw a few days ago that American television was beginning to discuss the news of an official indictment of the coronavirus and even its distribution to a prominent American scientist, a professor from Harvard itself.
And the virus was not created anywhere, but, of course, in one of the Chinese laboratories in Wuhan City.
Beautiful beginning of the day, isn't it?
Of course, the first thing that came to mind, even us, is that this news is definitely fake, and you have to check it again and again before I tell you anything like that.
We are, after all, a portal of self-development, not a yellow press for any information reason.
But it 's not strange that this is the truth on American television.
Moreover, we went a little further and even found official confirmation of this news on the U.S. Department of Justice website (https: / / www.justice.gov /).
Where the judicial authorities of America publish their official statements, of course in English.
But we will, of course, give you a brief summary of that accusation, as well as brief historical summaries.
(By the way, you can also learn this information from the video on our channel in the voice of good broadcasters with professional video editing, so choose what is easier to read or watch and go on...)
https: / / www.youtube.com / watch? v = HcGFPVxD158
Who is responsible for creating and spreading Coronavirus
Thus, the US authorities accuse a well-known American scientist, at least of concealing the receipt of research grants and even opening laboratories in Wuhan.
At most, though not officially, in promoting the creation of the coronavirus and possibly its spread.
Let 's find out who this scientist is and what he' s actually being accused of.
In fact, Charles Liber is really very, you can say with a big letter a famous scientist and to accuse him without a case would not even be in the United States.
A page of this scientist is even in the Russian version of Wikipedia, where it is stated in particular that he deals mainly with nanochemistry and physical chemistry.
He has published more than 400 scientific works in official journals by the age of 60.
He is also a member of 18 local and world scientific organizations, and has won 11 prestigious awards.
And even personally head of the Department of Chemistry and Chemical Biology at Harvard, in 2011 he managed to make it to the top 20 most cited chemists in the scientific literature of the living.
As you can see, such a person is unlikely to be charged without providing any evidence, so let 's read on the government' s official website what the FBI has been able to track down so far, which has already arrested him on these charges.
What are Charles Lieber accused of?
The prosecution's story begins with a 2008 donation of $15 million from the National Institute of Health and even the Department of Defense to Charles Lieber and the team of Harvard University he ran...................
Then, around 2011, he became the so-called "strategic scientist" at Wuhan University of Technology.
He is also a participant in a "Thousand Talents" program where China usually attracts talented scientists to develop its economy, science, China's national security, and the like.
In fact, as the US official court website says, literally, "this program exists to attract Chinese talent and experts from abroad to share their knowledge and experience with China, and to reward those professionals for stealing confidential information."
According to Leber's three-year contract for the Thousand Talents program, Wuhan University paid Lieber US $50,000 each month, plus living expenses of up to 1,000,000 Chinese yuan (at the time it was about US $158,000, which you would agree is also not a small amount), but most importantly, allocated him more than US $1.5 million to set up an entire research laboratory.
In turn, Lieber was obliged to work there "for at least nine months a year," announcing international cooperation projects, educating young teachers and doctors of science, China, rather than the US, respectively.
It is further alleged that in 2018, Charles Lieber even directly deceived American investigators interested in his connections with the Chinese University and the Thousand Talents program, and even allegedly in November persuaded someone at Harvard to give false information about his non-participation in the program.
What about Chinese intelligence and espionage?
In addition, in the same document, the United States Department of Justice links his activities to two other individuals just below.
Yanqing Ye, a Chinese woman who has helped with important research in the United States for at least a few years, while at home serving as a lieutenant in the People's Liberation Army (PLA), the Armed Forces of the People's Republic of China, and a member of the Communist Party of China (CCP).
It is also possible that she was sent home with some secret information that she was asked to provide.
On October 9, 2019, a Chinese named "Zaosong Zheng" was reported to have stolen 21 bottles of biological research and attempted to transport them from the United States to China.
Federal officers at the airport found bottles hidden in a sock inside one of Zheng's bags.
Zheng allegedly lied to the officers about the contents of his luggage, but later confessed to stealing the bottles from the laboratory because he was going to bring them to China to be used for research in his own laboratory and to publish the results under his own name.
Indeed, everything follows from a dozen counts of charges, each of which lights up a short prison term and financial fines of up to $250,000, as well as a list of prosecutors starting with Assistant Attorney General for National Security John Demers, U.S. Attorney Andrew Lelling; Special Agent in Charge of the FBI Boston Field Office Joseph R. Bonanovoldt; Michael Denning, Director of Field Operations, U.S. Customs and Border Protection, and many others.
You can read this document yourself in English on the official website, and we will always leave a link in the comments.
But, in general, it seems that the US is trying to find the culprit and the creator of the coronavirus as a matter of urgency in the light of current events, especially given that the Wuhan Institute of Virology has already done a lot of research on the subject.
It is also home to the Wuhan Centre for Disease Control, which also conducts research on dangerous viruses and, of course, officially includes studies on bats.
And I hope you remember that even in the official series, the Covid-19 coronavirus could have been transmitted to the first person on the market in Wuhan from eating bats, as we talked about last time.
Is there any other evidence of the artificial origin of the Covid-19 coronavirus?
And by the way, there was a recent speech by another professor, Richard Ebright, in which he described how he had personally observed the scientists of these two Wuhan laboratories studying viruses without adhering to virtually any basic safety requirements.
So, not surprisingly, even now a version with a deadly virus accidentally released from China's "secret laboratories" may also be true.
Again, given that such viruses have indeed been studied there for a very long time, and safety is not always perfect, so that the culprit of such a global tragedy may in theory even be simply a "human factor," and in the common people simply the "crooked hands" of one of the unscrupulous Chinese scientists, and as the connivers tell us, some collusion of some secret international organizations or states.
But this is all as you do not understand exactly, and the main thing is that, unfortunately, one way or another we will not know today.
Although, in fact, a growing number of prominent scientists around the world are beginning to claim that this coronavirus clearly has signs of interference and change by specialists.
It works too well and is well-constructed from the perspective of modern virology, which is unlikely to have happened just by accident.
After all, it has a part of the code like the human immunodeficiency virus, and somehow it is too focused on specific proteins that are produced mainly in the elderly and the sick.
And young and healthy people often go almost without treatment, like any other common influenza.
And of course, this is especially likely, given that many of the world 's laboratories, particularly in the United States and China, have been officially working on virtually identical viruses for a long time now, testing them on all the same animals that are officially claimed to have been coronavirus and transmitted to humans.
In order not to be baseless and this time, or for some reason we are sometimes accused of such a thing in comments, we will also apply another reference to a wonderful article that was published, by the way, in the world's most authoritative scientific publication, Necour, as early as 2015 https: / / www.nature.com / articles / nm.3985
If you go through the link, the title already states that SARS virus and a group of circling coronaviruses like it demonstrate good potential for human presence... And apparently recommends that scientists worldwide pay attention to this.
What they seem to have learned.
But the article we 're not going to translate to you in its entirety this time, because it' s a scientific article, it 's incredibly long, it' s boring, and it has lots of complicated graphs.
But, in general, information about it is reported to have been provided by many different scientific institutes of epidemiology and virology in the United States, China and Switzerland.
After that publication, by the way, and in many media around the world in 2015 and later, it was mentioned that in the United States, a dangerous coronavirus based on the bat virus was being developed, but then it was apparently transferred to a Chinese town called Wuhan.
Or even, first, Arab countries bought it out of the US, and then sold it further to China because of a lack of their technology.
The problem was that the US is officially prohibited from developing such a virus weapon, but China seems to be less strict.
But, again, it 's all again canonical theories that are already 100% unprovable officially.
So far, therefore, we have only the facts that the investigations in this case are apparently being carried out at the highest levels of the authorities of different countries, and that for a very long time the virus has been clearly developed by a very large number of scientists from different countries and laboratories around the world, in the hope of finding some super-effective virus.
Which could be used as a powerful and, above all, smart biological weapon that could change the economy and politics of even the entire planet.
Whether the scientists have it or not, we will all soon find out with you... hopefully not posthumously... well you.........
All the good, wisdom and, of course, the most important health...
https: / / www.youtube.com / watch? v = 4dDMACnTutY
https: / / www.youtube.com / watch? v = LgduUUm1DOU