How long does immunity last after coronavirus?.............
The recently discovered coronavirus infection, caused by COVID-19, has a sufficiently high degree of infectivity, which is why most attempts to stop the pandemic have failed.
Much hope was placed on laboratory research to determine the presence of antibodies in human blood to confirm that human immunity had developed.
However, it has not been easy - it is necessary to take into account all the nuances that exist due to the characteristics of the body and, in particular, its protective forces, the severity of the disease, the infection and other components.
But initially, to draw conclusions from the tests, you need to know when antibodies to coronavirus are produced, when some immunoglobulins are replaced by others, and how long are they in the body with different forms of COVID-19?
Immunity and antibodies
Immunity to infectious diseases in humans is innate and acquired, which is divided into non-specific and specific..
Non-specific (cellular) immunity is based on the activity of tissue cells and proteins - cytokines, interferons, macrophages that first respond to the pathogen's invasion and block the pathogen's reproduction by acting on it in different ways.
Therefore, in people with asymptomatic or mild disease, antibodies may not form, indicating sufficient effectiveness of cell immunity.
In the event that non-specific immunity fails to cope with the introduced agent, the mechanism of specific protection of the organism is initiated.
Specific (humoral) immunity is the production of antibodies through a complex sequential mechanism of activation of blood cells, including a phase of transformation of B lymphocytes into plasma cells that produces antibodies - immunoglobulins.
In other words, antibodies are specific proteins produced by the immune system in response to the introduction of a pathogen.............................
They are represented by several species, each with a specific function:
recognition,
Transmission of pathogen presence signals
rendering harmless,
Storage of information, etc.
Antibodies are synthesized by "memory cells" - B-lymphocytes, which receive information about the pathogen introduced from the primary immune links: NK cells, T-lymphocytes, macrophages, etc.
Memory cells produce immunoglobulins, which in turn bind the antigen and eliminate it from the body.
After the body has been "cleansed" of the infection, the number of antibodies decreases, but the pool of memory cells remains.
When they re-interact with a "familiar" pathogen, memory cells begin to produce antibodies to it quickly and in large numbers.
This immune response is called a specific immune response, and because of its speed prevents the development of a disease with a characteristic symptom.
That is, the infection process does not result in the disease in its entirety.
The presence of antibodies in the blood indicates that the immune system has not only encountered the pathogen before, but has also formed a defense against it.
When do COVID-19 antibodies form?
Numerous studies have found that immunoglobulins appear in the blood both in response to clinically expressed disease and in asymptomatic coronavirus infection.
In the first week after infection, class M immunoglobulins (IgM) begin to be synthesized - this occurs about 3-5 days after infection.
They are the first to be found with an infection, and are therefore considered to be markers of the acute period of the disease.
IgM is present in the blood for the first 2-3 weeks, then gradually decreases.
However, testing for class M antibodies can detect a non-specific response, which in some cases results in a false positive.
Since immunoglobulins M serve as the "first line of defense," they must begin to repel the pathogen attack as quickly as possible, so they are not specific and may not capture the pathogen accurately enough.
Different pathological and physiological processes of another nature can also lead to a non-specific reaction with the test system:
Acute and chronic inflammatory diseases;
Thyroid problems;
Autoimmune diseases;
Pregnancy etc.
In such situations, the result of the analysis will be considered false positive and will require re-testing.
In standard infectious disease, including coronavirus infection, class M immunoglobulins disappear after about a month, replacing them with more specific class G antibodies (IgG).
However, scientists have recently found that class M immunoglobulins can last much longer in coronavirus infection than in previously known pathogens.
These antibodies were determined in the blood of people who had been infected 1.5-3 months after the onset of characteristic symptoms, when coronavirus itself was not detected for a long time.
It is not known whether or not persistent immunity to coronavirus is being developed, as mechanisms for developing an immune response to the new pathogen are being studied.
However, the presence of immunoglobulins G in the blood indicates that the infection has taken place in the body and the formation of an immune response, and how long it is to be determined.
Experts argue that it is the presence of immunoglobulins G in the blood serum that indicates that a person has contracted coronavirus infection.
Two to three months after the disease, antibodies are predominantly present in class G, and can persist in the body for a year and longer, scientists say.
How long has immunity lasted?
Chinese scientists are actively studying the results of antibody tests, trying to figure out how soon immunoglobulins begin to disappear from the blood.
In the studies, the main criterion was to compare the rates of patients with COVID-19 asymptomatic and those with characteristic features of the disease.
It was found that the immune system of asymptomatic individuals responded less to coronavirus infection.
The study also found that after about three months, the amount of antibodies in the serum of patients with asymptomatic disease approached zero.
Therefore, to answer unequivocally, immunity to coronavirus is forming in all infected or not, scientists are so far difficult.
In addition, it remains unclear what level of antibodies must be in order to protect a person from re-infection itself or from becoming a source of infection to others.
At the same time, it was noted that in patients with moderate and severe coronavirus disease, antibodies persist longer than in asymptomatic carriers or patients with mild symptoms.
This information gives hope to patients who have experienced severe COVID-19 leakage.
In doing so, one feature of the family previously studied members of the family coronaviruses - seasonal pathogens - should be taken into account.
This means that the reinfection is accompanied by the introduction of more viruses, even if the number of antibodies is maintained and increased.
Kenyan scientists in this study suggested that this is due to the use of the antibody virus in re-infection to better infect target cells.
This phenomenon, which is characteristic of the coronavirus family, has been closely studied since the beginning of the pandemic and, unfortunately, calls into question the efficacy of a number of proposed vaccines.
Frequently asked questions and advice
How long can antibodies to coronavirus last and are they able to protect against re-infection?
It is not clear how long antibodies are found in the blood of the infected person, as the characteristics of the agent and the reaction to it have not been fully studied.
In some people, the titres do not decrease over time, but rather increase, and it is not uncommon for a second infection to occur a few months later.
Is it true that antibodies that have emerged as a result of coronavirus infection can disappear after a certain time?
In some patients who have experienced COVID-19, antibodies disappear over time.
Scientists explain this by the individual characteristics of the organism, as well as by the fact that in the human body cells and components of their structure are constantly updated.
Are there categories of patients in which antibodies to coronavirus are less developed?
Of course, young people have a faster and more effective immune system, so they will have antibodies that are faster and larger enough to cope with the infection.
The situation is more difficult for the elderly and those with serious chronic diseases.
Their immunity is weakened, antibodies are slowly synthesized, they are not sufficient to fight the infection, resulting in bacterial microflora, causing SARS and other serious complications.
How accurate are antibody studies?
Different test systems have varying degrees of reliability, so even if a person has a certificate that he or she is not infected, he or she cannot be 100% sure.
It may have taken a sample shortly before the infection, and at that time the pathogen had not spread enough to be detectable by research.
Council No. 1
The means of protection against coronavirus infection should not be neglected, even if COVID-19 has recently passed, as the specifics of the formation of immunity against it have not been fully studied and there is a possibility of re-infection.
Council No. 2
Even if antibody analysis showed the presence of class G immunoglobulins only, it is not clear that there is no fear of infection.
There are several hypotheses that the new virus is constantly mutating, increasingly adapting to the host, and hence to its defense methods.
It is better not to risk health and to comply with all rules to prevent infection.
Asthenic syndrome after coronavirus: symptoms, treatment.
What do you do after the casting?
Source: apkhleb.ru
How long do antibodies to coronavirus last?
Home / About coronaviruses / How long antibodies to coronaviruses last
COVID-19 is a viral disease.
An infected person develops antibodies to coronavirus, but these antibodies remain in the body for as long as there is no definitive information.
According to surveys carried out, 650,000 people who overtook COVID-19 were found to have acquired immunity only 15%.
Most of them were minors.
In 7% of cases, recovery is due to interferon, a special protein that inhibits the spread of viruses and is present in almost every cell of the body.
But antibodies (defenders of a particular virus) are not formed.
So immunity doesn't work either.
However, 8% of those who recovered developed antibodies to coronavirus, which were retained in the body and protected from re-infection.
The exact timing of immune protection against gout is not yet known by WHO.
Many world scientists believe that disease-induced immunity protects against re-infection within six months.
How long antibodies to coronavirus persist in the human body after illness depends on the following circumstances:
The age of the sick.
In the absence of chronic diseases, young people have longer immune defenses than older people.
Treatment of Disease.
The longer and heavier a person is sick, the longer the protection against the virus.
Health status.
If there are chronic autoimmune diseases, immunity either does not form or quickly disappears.
Dose of the virus.
Doctors have the highest immune protection, as they regularly come into contact with a large number of viral particles.
Lifestyle also affects the state of immunity.
The following categories of people may be immune for longer periods:
Leading healthy lifestyles;
No harmful habits;
Nutritious;
athletes.
How many months of coronavirus antibodies remain in the body after vaccination, the director of the Sputnik V Centre, who developed the vaccine, told him.
Alexander Ginzburg.
He reported that sustained immunity after the vaccine was introduced would be developed within 21 days.
The maximum duration of protection is 4 months.
The effectiveness of vaccination is 85%.
But the number of serious cases is decreasing.
The SARS-CoV-2 virus is constantly mutating, so vaccination cannot guarantee protection for several years.
When re-infected, the signs of disease are identical to those of the primary infection:
No sense of smell;
Muscle, joint pain;
First in the throat;
Headache;
fixed nose;
Overcoming Cough.
Attention!
If these symptoms occur, you should go to a medical institution and take a coronavirus test.
Medical science candidate Andrey Kondrakhin stated that the reason for the return of COVID-19 could be too early termination of treatment.
Many patients, after discharge from the hospital, stop taking drugs when symptoms disappear, while the doctor 's recommendations should be followed precisely.
That is, while continuing treatment at home, it is necessary to:
Drink all recommended medicines at full rate;
Control of blood;
Re-test after discharge in two weeks;
Do not drink alcohol within one month of recovery;
Diet.
Every person has innate immunity.
It destroys any foreign genes, immediately reacts to the introduction of viruses, bacteria, microbes.
Acquired immunity also combats serious infections.
Special cells produce antibodies (proteins) that destroy bacteria and viruses.
According to the British daily The Guardian, scientists have discovered an unusual feature of the immunity of people with gout: in some cases, antibodies produced instead of viral particles attack useful human immune cells.
Autoantibodies affect blood vessels, brain, gastrointestinal tract, connective tissue, liver.
The disease is worse.
Interesting!
In COVID-19 patients, autoantibodies were found in even greater numbers than in patients with autoimmune diseases.
Normally, the human immune system recognizes coronavirus and begins to produce antibodies that destroy the pathogen anywhere in the body.
Studies have shown that the stronger the symptoms in a person with severe illness, the longer his immune protection after recovery.
Almost all people who have contracted coronavirus develop antibodies in their blood, but not all are able to protect effectively.
Masking night in public places Masking + gloves + antiseptic Filter: All Thirsty Response Sorting Voice Response Views
100% on immunity to coronavirus (Covid-19) in the sick and in those who have not, how to restore health
The formation of natural protection against coronavirus infection is the most important issue that concerns both those who have been infected and those who have not yet experienced this type of respiratory disease.
Both individual and collective immunity to coronavirus is important for successful resistance to the pathogen, and the more active it is, the fewer people will become infected and become sick.
All the important information about when protection against the virus occurs, how long it lasts and whether it can be re-infected, we have gathered in one article especially for our readers.
Any viral disease leaves behind antibodies that, for a time, protect humans from re-infection.
Their duration depends on the type of pathogen, and for some diseases it is life-threatening, while for others it may disappear after a short time.
The COVID-19 exciter belongs to the group of viruses and is therefore subject to the same rules.
Do you have it?
Doctors can say with certainty that immunity to coronavirus is developing in the patients with the disease.
People who have been infected have two types of protection: humoral and cellular.
The first type of immune function is associated with antibodies that are used to activate other protective cells and prevent the virus from reproducing in the body upon re-entry.
T lymphocytes are blood components that, in response to infectious agents, immediately begin to destroy them without damaging the body's tissues.
Initially, doctors believed that coronavirus infection was characterized by gumphal immunity, which was the primary source of vaccine development.
As clinical and laboratory data have been studied, scientists have concluded that cellular protection is equally important and crucial for the body's long-term resistance to coronavirus.
How long it lasts
The duration of protection against a new strain of coronavirus infection is not precisely determined.
Numerous observations of the infected show that on average antibodies persist in the blood for several months (up to six months), but there are cases where they disappear within a couple of weeks.
However, the strength of immune protection decreases over time, and the presence of a small number of antibodies does not always provide reliable prevention of re-infection.
Physicians have already seen cases of the second infection of COVID-19 in people who have been sick and cured, giving doctors the right to call coronavirus immunity non-stable and short-lived.
What determines duration
How long immunity lasts after coronavirus depends on the following factors:
Flow.
The longer a person is sick, the more time it takes to develop antibodies, and the more they will become.
As a result, those with severe infection with pneumonia and long-term treatment have a much higher chance of protection from the virus than those with mild symptoms.
Virus saturation dose.
Scientists have found that the immune function of physicians against COVID-19 lasts longer, due to regular contact with large volumes of virus particles.
Consequently, doctors have a lower risk of re-infection.
Patient's age.
Young people have a more active immune system, so their antiviral protection lasts longer.
However, if a young or middle-aged patient has chronic pathology, immunity is likely to be weak and unstable.
Health status.
Of course, in patients with chronic autoimmune processes, immunodeficient states, the protective forces of the body do not work properly, so they have immunity to COVID-19 quickly vanishes or never develops.
How to improve health after recovery: 10 important rules
Antibodies to coronavirus are produced after coagulation, but long-term disease reduces the overall resistance of the body, so those who recover are at risk of other viral and bacterial infections.
If you have an overdose of COVID-19, you should take care of your health.
Medics give 10 effective tips on how to restore immunity after a coronavirus:
Sweet dreams.
Night rest 7-9 hours a day is a guarantee of good health, harmonious functioning of the nervous and endocrine system, which is important to maintain the body's natural immune protection.
Protein Food.
Antibodies are proteins by their chemical structure, and proteins include enzymes, many hormones, and other biologically active substances.
Adequate intake of easily digested protein is especially necessary when the body is depleted by coronavirus infection.
Gynecological Gymnastics.
In addition to the direct beneficial effects on the lungs and the prevention of scar formation in heavy form of gout, special exercises have beneficial effects on neuroendocrine regulation, strengthening local and systemic protective factors.
Stress avoidance.
Stress situations that recur regularly lead to disruption of the body's adaptation mechanisms and provoke the development of diseases.
So you need to learn to switch, spend more time with your friends and family, and use meditation and aphimation techniques.
Vitamins.
Vitamin supplementation is a fast and effective way to raise immunity.
Vitamin C (ascorbic acid) as well as vitamins A and D are.
If possible, it is best to choose with the treating physician a vitamin complex that is suitable for a specific individual.
Physical exercise.
Regular activity contributes to the formation of useful hormones and biologically active substances, increases energy generation, and helps the body recover faster after illness.
It is important to maintain moderation in training and to increase stress gradually.
Say no to panic.
The constant anxiety for one 's health, the fear of dangerous diseases, lead to a real deterioration of one' s condition and the development of pathology.
This is because the condition of the nervous system is directly related to self-esteem and the health of the internal organs.
Adapters.
Additives to this group include ginseng, lemon, and oleterococo.
They improve self-esteem, increase energy, stimulate the immune system.
However, natural medicines have virtually no contraindications.
Swimming lessons.
Swimming is one of the best sports that provides dosed and uniform stress on all muscles, training breathing and endurance.
The beneficial effect of water on the nervous system helps maintain a person's mental comfort.
Immunology.
Drugs (such as Kagosel) have a specific effect on immunity and are rapidly restored.
Such drugs are better taken on the advice of a doctor, as they all have certain contraindications and limitations.
Although this scenario seems unlikely to many, medical observations and research show that with a new infection, COWID-19 is all possible.
Is there
Natural population resilience to a new strain of the virus is not a myth.
Doctors have linked it to the fact that people regularly encounter other agents of coronavirus, as these agents cause up to 20-30% of seasonal colds and ORVI.
Cross-immunity can develop in the body when antibodies or T-lymphocytes that are "trained" to recognize one type of pathogen start attacking COVID-19.
Therefore, if a person is immune to infections caused by coronavirus, he or she is much less likely to be affected by a new strain.
Doctors warn that it is not excluded that a person has asymptomatic transmission of the virus, after which antibodies are formed.
In such a case, if the patient does not get infected with confirmed contact with the patient, he or she will think that he or she is not sick, but has natural immunity.
Although in fact the virus has already collided, antibody analysis will confirm this.
Factors affecting its availability
The new coronavirus infection does not circulate for long, so scientists have not yet had time to fully investigate its properties and characterize immunity.
It is likely that this type of protection from coronavirus depends on the innate immune response characteristics, the resistance of antibodies that have formed in previous episodes of ORVI.
Doctors believe that T-lymphocyte properties play a major role in the development of protective forces, which can be very active and will immediately begin to destroy when confronted with the pathogen.
Possibility of contamination
It is important to realize that such relative immunity does not provide 100 per cent protection against coronavirus infection.
Therefore, in order to protect yourself and your loved ones, standard preventive measures must be observed, not forgetting the strengthening of the body with vitamins, micronutrients, physical loads and the correct working and rest regime.
COVID-19 antibody analysis: species and interpretation
To determine immunity after coronavirus, there are two types of studies: immunoenzyme (IFA) and immunochromatographic (IHA).
They have different principles and execution speed, and differ in the accuracy of the results.
For ease of comparison, the distinguishing features of each method are presented in the table.
Date result received
5-15 minutes
24 hours
Material
Finger blood
Venous blood
What it shows
Antibodies produced in response to contamination
Same as Iha
How reliable is the result?
About 70% (according to manufacturer)
99.9%
Both methods can detect two types of antibodies, which can be used to establish the presence of immune protection for Covid-19.
Possible 3 scenarios (interpretation):
IgM elevated, IgG absent - person in acute phase of coronavirus infection
IgM and IgG increased - patient has COVID-19 but is in recovery stage
IgM is absent, IgG is elevated - immunity to infection has formed.
Can you learn about immunity without research?
It is not possible to determine whether there is immunity to coronavirus without special blood tests.
There are no absolute external signs of protective factors.
The only way to predict the formation of natural resistance is if a person has contracted coronavirus infection and this is confirmed by a PCR test.
In most cases, immunity is formed, but this cannot be said with 100% certainty.
If I have very strong immunity, can I still get sick?
Everyone has innate protective factors that reduce the risk of infection with viruses and bacteria.
If a person's immune system works properly and the cells defuse pathogens in time, the chance of getting sick is lower than in others.
Severe immunity is demonstrated by rare respiratory infections (not more than once a year), rapid recovery and absence of complications in ORVI.
However, even very strong immunity does not guarantee full protection from coronavirus disease, as it does from any other infection.
Such a person should not be ignored by simple anti-epidemic rules, since the new coronavirus is unpredictable and no one is immune to the disease.
Please assess the article:
If you do not like it, please indicate in the commentary that it is not, and I will try to correct it.
Inputs from ImmunoLogiya.info on the topic of article:
The scientist reported how long immunity to COVID-19 is maintained
For this purpose, the university began testing the population of the region for the existence of immunity to COVID-19, reported the scientist "Russian newspaper."
The virus came in winter
Alexander Dmitriyevich, I understand correctly, you are not conducting mass testing, but scientific research?
Alexander Botvinkin: Yes.
Having gathered enough material and analysed it, we could provide a more objective picture of the spread of infection and adjust the strategy to combat the spread of COVID-19.
How Russia's Vaccine Fights COVID-19
Therefore, we do not have the task of testing the population of the area on a massive scale.
We need to get enough material for scientific analysis, using the power of the University's Professor's Blade and the results from other clinics and laboratories in Irkutsk.
But aren't you blindly conducting research?
Are you sure you already have specific suggestions that you intend to check?
Alexander Botvinkin: If you look at the official information on the number of infections and prevalence of COVID-19 in the region, you can see that most of the cases are not detected in the local population.
These are guests from near abroad or other regions of Russia.
A striking example is the migrant workers who arrive at the construction sites of Priangaria.
Why was there not a dramatic increase in coronavirus infection among the local population, even though tens of thousands of people were surveyed?
What is the result of preventive self-isolation measures at the beginning of the epidemic?
Or other measures to reduce transmission?
Maybe some percentage of Siberian people have already suffered from this disease and have immunity?
A baby with coronavirus was treated in Samara
It is known that during the winter many Irkutians with symptoms of acute respiratory infection were found to have human coronaviruses, which could change the susceptibility of the population to COVID-19.
So you're assuming that the coronavirus could have circulated in the territory of the Precambrian before the pandemic was declared?
Alexander Botvinkin: Why not?
We cannot ignore that possibility.
I can cite a historical fact as an argument.
After the discovery of the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) in the 1970s, new laboratory tests found it in blood samples collected from humans much earlier.
This may not be an accurate example, as HIV infection is chronic and transmitted in other ways.
But it shows that science has to check different versions, not just obvious ones.
Searching for antibodies
Does the test detect antibodies to COVID-19?
Alexander Botvinkin: Unfortunately, any test can produce both false positive and false negative results.
Cross-reactions with related viruses such as human coronaviruses are not excluded.
In general, however, immunoenzyme analysis (IFA) is considered to be quite specific and sensitive.
Quantitative estimates for new coronavirus antibody test systems are not yet available, as their widespread use is only beginning.
However, it is known that antibodies are produced in the body in response to both the clinically expressed disease and the asymptomatic course of infection.
Since when can these antibodies be detected?
Alexander Botvinkin: Class M antibodies can be detected by the end of the first week after infection.
This is "the first line of defense," and they disappear pretty quickly.
In the future, class G immunoglobulins will be developed.
They are found in the blood from the end of the second week after the disease.
The effects of coronavirus on the cerebral cortex have been described.
The number of antibodies peaks in the second to third month after infection, during which time they are mainly represented by class G immunoglobulins, which persist in the body for up to a year and more.
It is the presence of class G immunoglobulins in the blood that indicates a past infection.
Therefore, testing systems are more commonly used in laboratories for the detection of immunoglobulins G.
For COVID-19 such a test system was developed by the Novosibirsk Scientific Center for Virology and Biotechnology "Vector."
Several other similar test systems have been licensed.
How does the material fence and, indeed, the antibody analysis itself go?
Alexander Botvinkin: The subject receives blood from a vein.
By centrifugation or another method, the serum is removed, which serves as the material for the study.
Once sufficient samples have been collected for analysis, they are delivered to a certified laboratory.
Special instruments - IFA analysers are used for research.
The analysis itself takes several hours.
Why do people get an answer in a few days?
Alexander Botvinkin: So far, the patient's response to the presence or absence of antibodies to COVID-19 in his body will actually be given in four to five days.
It takes time to process the entire process.
In the future, it is hoped that the time frame for the outcome will be shortened.
Self lab assistant
They say drug stores are about to get test strips for COVID-19 antibodies.
Just a drop of blood from your finger can be applied and you don't have to go to the lab.
Alexander Botvinkin: Yes, these are so-called chromatographic tests that work on the principle of pregnancy tests.
But their sensitivity is lower than standard IFA analysis.
They may appear in pharmacies.
Russia will have yogurt and nose drops for coronavirus vaccines
But I don 't think it' s good when we 're dealing with an infectious disease.
Consideration must be given to biosecurity issues and the need for medical knowledge to correctly interpret the result.
For example, antibodies can be detected 10-14 days after infection when the person is still infected.
Does the proliferation of IFA tests, their relatively low cost and rapid delivery mean that they will be used to diagnose the disease in the future?
Alexander Botvinkin: I think not yet.
An antibody test is not very suitable for diagnosis because antibodies can be determined one to two weeks after the onset of the disease.
Using PCR (polymerase chain reaction) to detect COVID-19, it is possible to detect the virus earlier.
And this test is more specific and more sensitive.
Although in China, following the 2002-2003 epidemic, articles were published on the advisability of parallel use of PCR and antibody testing.
In the long term, an IFA test may be developed to determine not only the antibody but also the virus for a mass survey of the population.
However, at this stage, the main purpose of the application of immuno-fermentative analysis is to assess retrospectively the patterns of coronavirus distribution among the population.
Pending vaccine
Mathematical methods exist and are used to predict peaks, plateaus and recessions of epidemics.
Is that enough?
Do you need antibody tests?
Alexander Botvinkin: The mathematical models on which predictions were based largely assumed that coronavirus spread to a fully susceptible population.
And every person has an equal chance of infection and disease.
But this is not always the case in reality.
It is well known that, even during epidemics, not all the inhabitants of the city or country fell ill with the plague.
At the entrances to Sevastopol began testing for coronavirus.
Yes, according to reports from a number of European countries, we see that the calculated growth and decline curves have been confirmed.
But there are other examples.
In our region, for example, similar calculations have fortunately failed.
After the first cases were identified, the number of cases increased significantly less during April than forecast.
The increase in morbidity in May was due in large part to migration from other regions, which was not taken into account in the forecast.
It is very important to understand why this happened.
There is much talk today about the need for mass testing, including antibodies to COVID-19.
What do you think?
Alexander Botvinkin: I think mass testing is not necessary.
A sample population survey is sufficient for scientific findings.
It is practically important to examine health workers - if they have a positive result, they will not have to undergo weekly PCR testing and will be much more relaxed in dealing with patients.
It appears that a survey of contact points could reduce the burden on observation offices.
On the other hand, there are people who are interested in doing this research.
Someone wants to communicate with elderly relatives, knowing that they are already sick and will not infect them.
Some are very uncomfortable walking in masks and respirators, and some are just tired of being scared.
Is there a risk of re-contamination?
Alexander Botvinkin: This risk, according to the epidemiological data, is not entirely excluded.
The global dissemination of COVID-19 had recently begun, and information was insufficient for final conclusions.
However, there is no doubt that the likelihood of recurrence in a person whose blood contains antibodies to coronavirus is very low, at least for the first year.
In the future, immunity may decline.
Vaccination against coronavirus in Russia may begin in autumn
This is also true of immunity that arises after vaccination.
For example, those who have been vaccinated against measles in childhood may become ill as adults after contact with a patient.
Therefore, revaccination and selective testing of the population for antibodies to the measles virus are envisaged.
Similar problems will arise once vaccination against coronavirus begins.
However, it must be understood that vaccination is the only reliable method of preventing respiratory infections.
But we don 't have the vaccine yet.
And COVID-19 continues to spread and has to endure restrictions in public life.
And, of course, no one has repealed the health and hygiene rules that are already firmly established in our lives: avoid enclosed spaces with large crowds of people, respect social distance, do not touch your face with your hands, and wash your hands more often.
And be healthy.
Tests for coronavirus reveal the presence of nucleic acid in humans.
The material for analysis is mouth and nasal swabs.
This test is also performed before the patient is discharged from the hospital to check whether he or she is free of the virus.
It is repeated two or three times.
Antibody tests determine not the virus itself but the presence of immunoglobulin, which is produced by the organism to control the pathogen.
The material for it is blood.
More like her serum.
All tracks written by COVID-19.
We'll do it! "
Read here.