FEIK: Coronavirus causes a bacterium that causes thrombosis and strengthens its 5G networks
Facebook partnership fake check
On the Internet, it is reported that coronavirus:
not caused by a virus, but by bacteria;
It causes thrombosis rather than pneumonia;
Covid-19 bacteria are amplified by 5G networks;
Treatment of coronavirus with aspirin and antibiotics;
Italian doctors change their treatment protocols through this.
Each of these points is false, and a similar fake has been denied before.
Research published so far confirms that COVID-19 is caused by the SARS-COV-2 virus, which affects the respiratory system and should not be treated with antibiotics.
A team of scientists from Italy did find that one of the manifestations of COVID-19 on the body is thrombosis in small arteries.
However, previous studies, as well as the study that the author is most likely referring to, show that COVID-19 is caused by the SARS-COV-2 virus, which affects the respiratory system and is capable of causing acute respiratory disease and severe pneumonia.
A study that indicates pulmonary thrombosis notes it as one of the manifestations caused by new coronavirus along with pneumonia, rather than instead.
Furthermore, the study has not yet undergone a scientific review process, so its results cannot yet be considered confirmed.
Coronavirus is not transmitted or amplified via 5G networks.
There is no information on changes in COVID-19 treatment protocols in Italy as a result of this study.
WHO notes that there is no evidence of efficacy against COVID-19 nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, including aspirin.
Trombosis is one of the manifestations of COVID-19 along with pneumonia.
Treatment of new coronavirus is therefore symptomatic, and thrombosis medications are recommended only for patients with confirmed venous thromboembolism.
There is no scientific evidence that patients with COVID-19 should take anticoagulants (drugs that inhibit blood coagulation) if they do not have a confirmed venous thromboembolism.
Also, there is no scientific evidence to support the efficacy and safety of thrombosis prevention in all patients.
VoxUkraine is a unique content worth reading.
Sign up for our e-mail, read us on Facebook and Twitter, watch current videos on YouTube.
We believe that words have power and ideas have great influence.
VoxUkraine brings together the best economists and helps them bring ideas to tens of thousands of compatriots.
VoxUkraine content is free (and will always be free), we do not sell advertising or lobby.
To do more research, create new influential projects, and publish many quality articles, we need smart people and money.
There are people!
Hold VoxUkraine.
We'll do more together!
The authors are not employees, nor counsel, nor hold shares, nor receive funding from any company or organization that would benefit from this article, nor are they in any way related to them.