Bad Health Advice.
Professor Vasily Vlasov on strange and dangerous recommendations against COVID
Insider published a very useful article by the Vice-President of the Society of Forensic Medicine Specialists, Professor Vasily Vlasov, which deserves to be published in its entirety:
"Already the ninth version of the" methodological recommendations "of the Ministry of Health of Russia on combating COVID-19 abounds with unverified and questionable instructions, and among the developers are people associated with drug manufacturers.
As a result, huge citizens' funds and poor health budgets are spent on inefficient and even dangerous medicines, and the producer of useless Arbidol earned 6.7 billion rubles in 10 months.
Thousands of Russians are prescribed a heart-threatening combination of hydroxychloroquine and azithromycin, and pregnant women with COVID-19, according to the Ministry of Health, should consider abortion.
For half a century now, doctors around the world have been working on clinical recommendations.
This is usually done by professional medical organizations, which bring together doctors of specific specialties based on reliable scientific evidence.
The idea of "probative clinical recommendations" came to Russia, even recently enshrined in the federal health law.
Former Minister of Health Veronica Skvortsova was proud to report hundreds of clinical recommendations developed as soon as possible.
Of course, many of them are imperfect, but it is important that many Russian professional societies - developers of recommendations - are oriented to the best examples in the world, and the coordinating work center under the leadership of Professor Vitaly Omelyanovsky has created quite modern methodological documents for developers.
The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic caught everyone by surprise.
In an effort to help doctors properly provide medical care, the Ministry of Health issued "Interim Methodological Recommendations" in January.
Why they are called "methodical" is a mystery.
The legislation does not provide for the publication of such documents by the Ministry of Health at all, but the ninth version was published in October.
The document is growing in size, the number of names in the "working group" is increasing, but the process of development remains unknown.
If we tried to apply the international standard document for assessing the quality of the AGREE recommendations to the text, we would get a very low rating.
Suffice it to say that among the authors are people who receive money from manufacturers of recommended drugs.
You will not find any words in the document about the conflict of interest of the participants in the training.
Some of the authors mentioned in a private interview stated that they were not involved in the development and were not responsible for the content.
People working in the structures under the Ministry of Health cannot openly state this.
The authors of the recommendations include people who receive money from manufacturers of recommended drugs
The lack of a methodology for development has led to sad results: in particular, the text lacks criteria for diagnosing the disease.
The drafters of the recommendations know that well-designed tools must be used for diagnosis.
For example, they write that "All elderly and elderly patients hospitalized with COVID-19 (recommended) should screen for the risk of malnutrition using validated tools."
But the main thing - diagnostic criteria - do not come.
This alone is sufficient to suggest that the Ministry 's methodological recommendations are not suitable for use in the intended purpose.
In 10 months, the document has changed a lot.
For example, in January, the Ministry of Health demanded that "if anaesthetic data indicate the likelihood of infection... regardless of the severity of the patient's condition... be hospitalized in an infectious hospital / ward with all anti-epidemic measures."
As early as April, this requirement was simply unenforceable, and the fact that it was meaningless as early as January, experts learned in March, when they realized the scale of the epidemic.
That 's quite an excuse.
It's not the other way around.
The document contains stupidity and signs of corruption-based filling.
Abortion
For example, starting with the third version of the document, it recommends: "In cases of severe and medium-severe illness up to 12 weeks of gestation due to the high risk of perinatal complications, termination of pregnancy after cure of the infection process is recommended."
There was no evidence, then and now, of the need to terminate pregnancy in women who had undergone COVID-19.
This is a rather characteristic feature of Russian midwives - they prevent women from having an abortion when they wish, but they recommend abortion in situations like this.
In version 9, the phrase is changed to "possible interruption."
This is a cynically disorienting doctor 's formulation: interruption always
possibly
The question is whether it should be done, whether it is useful or recommended by experts.
By October, it was well known that the infection did not cause foetal malformations, which occurred in other infections, such as Zika.
This stupidity is understandable to those who have studied well in school: "If a patient refuses to abort a pregnancy, a biopsy of the worsin chorion is required to detect chromosomal abnormalities in the fetus."
For others, I 'll remind you that chromosomes and therefore their anomalies appear at the moment of conception.
And then in the fetus and in the human, the chromosomes don 't change.
How the midwives who co-authored the document could have come up with such a stupid idea - that chromosomal abnormalities occur when an infection occurs, or even demand traumatic research in a compelling way - no one has yet been able to figure it out.
In later versions of the document, "a biopsy of the Vorsine chorion or placenta is required... at the woman's request."
This is another feature of Russian midwives.
They explain to patients what "must be done" and receive "voluntary consent," which is then presented as a "woman's wish."
Surprisingly, this stupidity and rudeness was noted by commentators as early as March, but the Ministry of Health has already reproduced it seven times, including in a later version of the document.
Obstetricians explain to patients what is "necessary" and receive "voluntary consent," which is then presented as "the woman's wish"
Infernal interferons and aprotinin
In the first months of the pandemic, the world was in a quandary with regard to COVID-19 drugs.
Naturally, the focus was on the existing antiviral drugs used to treat HIV / AIDS.
The authors of the recommendations in Moscow were original only in that they included in their document domestic preparations - ribavirin and interferon.
No one in the world uses interferons, and the methodological recommendations of the Ministry of Health of Russia from version to version prescribe using them.
True, to absolve themselves of responsibility for these irresponsible recommendations, the drafters have invented the next approach.
They report that the list of "drugs for the etiotropic therapy of infection caused by coronavirus 2019-nCoV" is given in the table (Annex 1.
List of recommended medicines for the treatment of coronavirus infection in adults. "
It looks like a recommendation - and it is a recommendation.
However, it should be added: "According to the WHO recommendations, it is possible to prescribe off-label drugs with the supposed etiotropic efficacy, their application must comply with the ethical standards recommended by WHO and be carried out in accordance with the Federal Law..." and lists six Russian and international acts without specifying the relevant situation of requirements.
It doesn't look like bullying a doctor.
Initially, beta interferons were recommended, now only alpha interferons.
It is almost exclusively Russian.
In the United States, the National Institutes of Health explicitly recommends that interferons not be used.
The Ministry of Health's recommendations include a list of literature.
It follows that the compilers relied on data on interferon activity against other viral infections and ignored the 2020 studies.
It is difficult to say whether this is due to corruption or simply to the fact that the next version of the document is being prepared by whom and how.
No more than 10 compilers (list of 9 pages!)
Read the text to 235 pages monthly.
It is not possible to consider early recommendations for therapy without shaking hands.
There has been a great deal of change in perceptions of how to treat moderate and severe COVID-19 patients.
For example, the section of the pathogenetic therapy aimed at secondary processes in the patient in the first version of the document begins with the recommendation of daily administration of aprotinin during the week.
This drug suppresses proteolysis (protein breakdown) and is used to prevent fibrinolysis from destroying blood clots (fibrin protein) and thus preventing bleeding.
In April, doctors around the world will realize that the most important killing process for patients with COVID-19 is the intracranial blood clotting (diffuse intracranial clotting - generally the typical process for severe infections).
Therefore, the use of anticoagulants, especially fractionated heparin, is important in the medium and severe course of the disease.
What the authors of the first version of the Russian document were guided by is difficult to say.
The second version of this recommendation no longer exists, and we do not know how many patients have had such a fatal experience and how soon they have stopped this practice.
In the first version of the document, patients were advised to give drugs to improve blood coagulation.
In the fourth, March version of the methodological recommendations, there are drugs that have become a worldwide misconception for several months: chloroquine, hydroxychloroquine, remdesivir and fauvipiravir.
Together with them, the arbidol enters the document.
Remdesivir
Remdesivir was developed to treat other viral infections, and testing it against COVID-19 was natural.
However, it has been known for 60 years that tests on individual patients give doctors impressions that may be far from the results of scientific research.
Therefore, in parallel with the use of remdesivir in the hope of its efficacy (outside of recorded data, off label), a randomized clinical trial was.
The manufacturer of the drug, as is usually the case, planned the test in such a way that the result would be faster and positive.
It was found that patients (moderate and severe) were later transferred to artificial lung ventilation.
Based on these data, the drug soon received an expedited approval from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for use in the treatment of COVID-19.
The world medical community demanded that the manufacturer redesign the first test to provide information on the frequency of fatalities and complications.
But that would make the test longer.
The company obtained its own, the drug was approved and large sales of the expensive short-term drug were secured.
Subsequent tests did not confirm its efficacy.
For Russian medicine, remdesivir was of theoretical interest: it was not registered in Russia and was physically inaccessible.
The reference to it in the March version of the recommendations of the Ministry of Health is nonsense, as it is customary to recommend to doctors only what is available.
However, remdesivir is present in all versions of the Ministry of Health recommendations, up to the October 9th version.
In October, studies showed that remdesivir was ineffective, and in October it was officially approved for use in Russia.
Hydroxychloroquine: old low intake
A similar fate exists in antimalarial drugs, which have the property of suppressing immune responses that damage human tissue in some diseases.
This property is widely used, for example, in the treatment of inflammatory joint diseases.
The idea of using this drug arose in March, when it became clear that the severe course of the disease was due to a particular, excessive inflammatory reaction of the body, a colorfully-scientifically called cytokine storm.
The drug was tested in various places, and it made a good impression on doctors.
It has become increasingly used.
Randomized controlled tests of hydroxychloroquine were started in the spring.
The first showed that it was ineffective as early as June.
Some continue to this day, but all have not found hydroxychloroquine effective in treating COVID-19 patients, both light and heavy.
The use of hydroxychloroquine was therefore abandoned worldwide as early as June.
It also appears in the October version of the recommendations of the Ministry of Health.
ARTICLES ON THEME
Hinine, aspirin, zinc and vitamins.
What to Do With COVID
Caution in the use of hydroxychloroquine and rapid near-universal withdrawal are related to the fact that the drug has a number of unpleasant side effects and one is even fatal.
The drug disrupts heart function, greatly increasing the likelihood of sudden cardiac arrest.
This risk is low if it is used to prevent malaria by healthy people under medical supervision, but increases in older people.
If used on a massive scale - in millions of people, and in an epidemic where it is not possible to do a periodic electrocardiogram, the use of the drug can cause a lot of deaths.
They look natural - death from cardiac arrest - it 's normal.
Thus, statistics hide deaths from side effects of drugs, among other things.
In Russia, according to documents of the Ministry of Health, it is customary to divide death from COVID-19 and death from other conditions and diseases in people infected with SARS-CoV-2.
Deaths from cardiac arrest fall into the second category, and therefore their association with the infection and use of hydroxychloroquine will never be identified.
In part, therefore, the COVID-19 death rates published on the basis of official statistics do not reflect the true increase in mortality in the epidemic.
The drafters of the recommendations understood that there was no sufficient justification for the use of hydroxychloroquine and applied the old low-dose regimen.
They write: "The decision on the assignment of hydroxychloroquine should be made individually on the basis of an assessment of the benefit-risk relationship for the individual patient."
They do not, however, indicate what the relationship between benefit and harm should be, how it should be assessed, thus shifting responsibility to the doctor.
Moreover, in describing the risk of hydroxychloroquine, the drafters of the recommendations cited eight conditions for its safe use outside the hospital.
Almost all of these conditions can be met under normal conditions, but it is absolutely impossible when polyclinics are being loaded into the epidemic.
So the Ministry of Health washes its hands, putting problems on doctors who can 't solve them.
Remdesivir and hydroxychloroquine are not recommended for use by WHO.
Of particular concern is the recommendation of the Ministry of Health to use hydroxychloroquine together with azithromycin.
The last one is an excellent antibiotic with a wide range of action.
But its antiviral activity is minimal at best.
It is difficult to understand why the drafters of the recommendations have consistently recommended it in combination with hydroxychloroquine since March.
This is because azithromycin causes cardiac arrest by itself, for the same reason as hydroxychloroquine.
The combination of these two drugs is very dangerous.
Meanwhile, hundreds of thousands of Russians have received and are still receiving this combination.
Hundreds of thousands of Russians continue to receive the deadly combination of the two drugs
These two heart-toxic drugs are centrally purchased, distributed and distributed free of charge in many places, including Moscow.
Surprisingly, in Moscow Yevgeny Nikonov and his colleagues conducted a study on the use of hydroxychloroquine.
Surprisingly, very little research is being done in Russia on therapeutic and prophylactic drugs against COVID-19.
This study showed that hydroxychloroquine was not useful.
That Russians continue to be treated with useless and dangerous drugs on the basis of the recommendations of the Ministry of Health is more than nonsense.
Favipiravir: uncontrolled and toxic generics
Fabipiravir appears in the recommendations of the Ministry of Health in March, that is, long before it is placed on the market and allowed to use it.
Developed in the United States, this drug is consistently referred to in the mass media of Russia as Japanese.
There, in Japan, it was only registered for the first time.
This registration was part of the preparations for a possible new fatal influenza.
This was done in many developed countries: spare capacities were developed and medicines were even stored.
Fabipiravir has not been approved in the United States for an obvious reason: it has embryotoxicity.
An adverse effect on the fruit is unacceptable for a drug that can be applied on a massive scale, unless, of course, mankind is seriously threatened.
In Japan, fauvipiravir was not used in the treatment of influenza, but was used in patients with COVID-19.
As early as May, an attempt to register the drug following a test fails - its effectiveness is considered negligible compared to the risk of side effects.
At the same time, the Russian Ministry of Health includes the medicine in its recommendations and begins its organized promotion.
In Russia, the drug began to be sold under the trade names Coronavir, Areplevir and Avifavir at an unreasonably high price - more than 10,000 rubles per package.
A drug not in demand and not registered in Russia, which lost patent protection in 2019, begins simultaneously to be promoted by three Russian companies, all three of which receive registration in an expedited manner based on extremely limited performance data.
Coronavir, Areplevir and Avifavir were registered on the basis of extremely limited performance data.
At first, the drug is only allowed for use in hospitals after pregnancy testing, but in September all three drugs are allowed for outpatient use, i.e., in the specific conditions of the Russian retail market - for uncontrolled use.
All three manufacturers promote their drugs as their own development rather than generics, although they are unable to explain what their intellectual contributions are.
This is probably done to justify a high price.
The Ministry of Health, with its recommendations, has been involved in the promotion of an ineffective and toxic drug.
Several versions of the department's recommendations include the phrase "In the Russian Federation a large-scale clinical study has been conducted to evaluate the efficacy and safety of the drug fauipiravir with the participation of 168 patients with light and medium heavy current COVID-19...."
It is not clear to whom this anecdote is intended.
This number of patients and the outcomes described in the text correspond to a small study of low quality, giving very weak grounds for recommending the drug for use.
The triumphant return of the arbidola
The appearance of Arbidol in the Ministry of Health's recommendations in March seems legitimate.
During the time of Tatyana Golikova as Minister of Health and Social Development, the drug dominated the retail market.
Then, along with the change of minister, Kagosel, an equally strange drug with no proven efficacy and potentially dangerous, took over as leader for a long time.
At the beginning of the epidemic, the manufacturer tried to advertise Arbidol as a treatment for COVID-19, but was stopped by the Federal Antimonopoly Service.
The formal prerequisites for such advertising were - in the course of the next re-registration of Arbidol, in his testimony there appeared a coronavirus infection without any justification.
By March, the drug had been recommended by the Ministry of Health, despite lack of justification, and paradoxically it remains recommended so far: the authors write that there is no evidence of its efficacy, but recommend its use.
As a result, the sale of arbidol jumped.
It is found in pharmacies.
It is purchased by the regional authorities and distributed free of charge to the sick.
The drug is marketed by the manufacturer as a preventive treatment and even for prevention after contact with the patient.
In 10 months, the producer is linked to Deputy Prime Minister Tatyana Golikova
"Otisipharm" and other companies of billionaire Victor Haritonin - The Insider >
According to DSM Group, it earned 6.7 billion rubles.
At the end of August, 360,000 were sold.
packages per week and by mid-October there were 718 thousand packages per week..
The producer of arbidol, which is linked to Tatiana Golikova, earned 6.7 billion rubles in 10 months
It cannot be said that the Ministry of Health has never abandoned the recommendation of ineffective and toxic drugs.
For example, he declined a recommendation to use the drug used to treat HIV / AIDS - a combination of lopinavir and ritonavir - in June.
However, the effectiveness of this combination was already known in April.
Due to this non-compliance, sales of the drug increased 10 times last year (DSM Group) in 10 months.
The extensive text of the recommendations addresses many interventions and many issues requiring informed decision-making.
Some of the sections are written in keeping with current knowledge.
Others reflect the backwardness of the drafters of the current state of world science, others reflect the bizarre power relations in the Russian market, and are not in any way in keeping with the interests of assistance.
Vast citizens' resources and poor health budgets are being spent on inefficient and even dangerous drugs, and it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Health to provide the country with a high-quality synthesis of scientific evidence.
Many of the defects of the "methodological recommendations" of the Ministry of Health are not reflected in this text.
But what has been said is enough to show how worrying the situation is today with the scientific validity of health policy and, in particular, with the validity of medical care provided to patients with COVID-19 in Russia. "
And subscribe to the book of outstanding historian A.V. Ostrovsky "Solzhenitsyn.
Farewell to the myth "must be right here and now.