The virus is constantly evolving and mutating.
Should we fear new mutations in the coronavirus?
Will vaccines be effective against them too?
Interview with Emma Hodcroft.
The Russian version was produced by Nina Shulyakov.
Should we fear new mutations in the coronavirus?
Will vaccines really be effective against these new strains?
We discussed the issues of virus mutation and the difficulty of developing new vaccines with Emma Hodcroft, a British-American expert in genomic epidemiology from the Institute for Social and Preventive Medicine of the University of Bern.
The emergence of new strains of Covid-19 is of concern to both scientists and governments, and, as Emma Hodcroft says, not without reason.
She was convinced that it was now very important to achieve the lowest possible number of new infections and to contain the spread of new mutations in coronavirus.
Mutations of viruses are normal, but even in rare cases, they can produce much more dangerous strains.
Show More
Switzerland and biodiversity issues
The Confederation addresses these problems with innovation, liberal economics, direct democracy and federalism.
SWI swissinfo.ch: What do we know about new mutations of the already familiar coronavirus?
Emma Hodcroft: Now scientists are focusing on three major mutations.
The fourth option has already hit the headlines, but scientists know little about it and cannot assess how dangerous it is.
New mutations have so far occurred mainly in the UK and South Africa, and two more have appeared in Brazil.
The one circulating in the United Kingdom, designated 501Y.V1 or B.1.1.7, was the first of the new mutations.
Emma Hodcroft.
Mr Oliver Hochstrasser
According to our data, it is distributed locally in most European countries.
This option is particularly worrisome because it is more contagious and therefore more difficult to deal with than, for example, the variations of SARS-CoV-2 that were in circulation last summer.
There is no conclusive evidence that it is more dangerous or lethal, but it is understood that an increase in the number of people who become infected and subsequently become infected can lead to a dangerous increase in the burden on the national health system.
We have less information on other mutations.
The South African variant is similar to the British, but it also has an additional mutation, which is of particular concern to experts.
Two strains circulating in Brazil also have this mutation.
According to some studies, this species of coronavirus is transmitted much faster, but we still don 't have enough data to be completely sure.
But what 's really worrisome is the ability of this additional mutation to make the virus dangerous for people who are already infected with SARS-CoV-2.
And this, of course, can also affect the effectiveness of existing vaccines.
But there is good news: recent data published by Moderna show that their vaccine is effective against both 501Y.V1 and additional mutations.
SWI swissinfo.ch: Does this mean that vaccines can become just useless?
EH: Even if vaccines become less effective, they are unlikely to stop working at all.
A situation in which the vaccine would be useless at all is unlikely to occur.
But the effectiveness of vaccines can actually fall from 95 percent to, say, 85-90 percent.
Experience with other pathogens has already shown that the immune response we get with a vaccine is much more effective than the natural response of the body.
Vaccines teach our bodies to defend themselves faster.
And if that 's true for SARS-CoV-2, it' s possible that all of these mutations will have no effect on vaccines at all, or the extent of this effect will be low.
According to the latest data from the company Moderna, this is exactly what is going on.
SWI swissinfo.ch: What is the danger of new mutations of the coronavirus?
EH: From a scientific point of view, virus mutation is a perfectly normal process, which is not surprising.
Every time the virus replicates, there 's a chance that there' s going to be a bug, which is what leads to mutations.
The longer we continue to have high rates of new infections, and consequently the higher the number of virus variants in circulation, the more likely it is that we will simply not be able to detect and register the next mutation in time.
We cannot completely exclude or prevent such a scenario unless, of course, we can wipe the virus off the face of the earth.
However, we can certainly reduce the likelihood of such a situation if we make sure that the virus has as little chance as possible of being in unusual conditions or of reaching people with weak immune systems.
Because that 's where the virus mutates most actively.
But we must be prepared for even unlikely scenarios.
We must therefore keep the number of new infections as low as possible.
SWI swissinfo.ch: The media refer to these variants as "British" or "South African" strains.
How do experts determine the origin of new strains?
EH: It 's actually very difficult to get rid of these geographical names, because they' re already in the mainstream, they 're being actively used by the media, and it' s often the easiest way to identify the strains and not get confused.
In the field of science, we try to use such designations as rarely as possible, because the region where the virus is spread is often not identical to the region where it actually occurred.
Not to mention that such terms can seriously damage the reputation of the countries concerned.
With some certainty, we can say that the option that exists in Britain may have originated in a very different place.
In the case of Brazil and South Africa, it is much more difficult to determine the origin of mutation variants of the virus.
These are not isolated regions like Britain - they have long borders with other countries.
South Africa is now doing a good job of sequencing a new mutation, but many of its neighbors just aren 't doing the same.
So we don 't know whether the mutation occurred somewhere else and was just detected in South Africa or not.
The situation in South America is even more difficult.
Brazil and its neighbors do not yet have sufficient resources to decipher the genome of these mutations.
SWI swissinfo.ch: How important is it scientifically to know exactly where a mutation originated?
EH: This is important to know in order to effectively counter their proliferation.
For example, in an environment where multiple infections are circulating, the virus mutates more frequently due to repeated infections.
The effect of this factor becomes minimal with a low number of new infections.
Scientists therefore need to understand how different environments stimulate the emergence of new viral strains.
SWI swissinfo.ch: Do you think that the so-called "British strain" can spread in Switzerland as widely as in the UK itself?
Perhaps we should introduce stricter quarantine measures?
EH: The British version is already circulating in Switzerland, and we need to prepare for the situation to get worse.
That 's why it' s very important to keep the number of new infections low so that we can stop this trend.
Only in this way will we be able to save our health system from being overloaded and to enable it to function effectively in the event of a real deterioration of the situation.
We do not want Swiss hospitals to be overcrowded, and we do not want ambulances to be stationed at clinic doors, as was the case in the United Kingdom.
But it is unlikely that we will be able to vaccinate the population faster than the new strain will spread.
Most likely, until all Swiss are vaccinated, we will have to focus all our attention on combating the spread of coronavirus through sanitation and hygiene.
SWI swissinfo.ch: What do you say to those who oppose vaccination or are simply afraid of vaccines?
EH: There were indeed many concerns about the speed at which vaccines were developed.
It usually takes five to ten years to get a vaccine on the market, and that 's the rate.
It is important to note that many of the vaccines certified in Switzerland have already been developed for other viruses, in some cases for other coronaviruses.
So we didn 't have to start from scratch.
Second, vaccine development takes a lot of time, not because of scientific complexity, but because of bureaucratic red tape.
Much of the scientist's work consists of looking for funding, writing reports, and trying to convince enough volunteers to participate in the testing.
This makes the process long and difficult.
The coronavirus pandemic has eliminated many of these problems.
Governments quickly provided additional funding and infrastructure, and far more volunteers than usual were motivated to participate in vaccine testing.
So it wasn 't scientists that acted faster than usual, and bureaucrats that interfered less.
As a result, the Covid-19 vaccines were tested even more thoroughly than the others because we had a lot more volunteers.
The experience of the pandemic has shown that science, working with all stakeholders, can develop very effectively.
People are also very concerned about the long-term consequences of vaccination.
I 'm going to say right away, vaccines are only in the body to teach the immune system how to fight a particular virus.
Then they disappear.
That is why they have very few side effects and are far less dangerous than the way to immunity through natural infection.
SWI swissinfo.ch: What future lessons can we learn from this pandemic?
EH: First of all, we still know too little about viruses.
Previously, research focused primarily on influenza and HIV, and the role of coronaviruses and other viruses in this family was rather underestimated.
Secondly, there are thousands of different viruses around us, and we do not know when the next pandemic may happen.
I hope, at least, that the current crisis will help convince a much wider public than before of the importance of virology as an industry of scientific knowledge.