Dr. Fawcett has been linked to the Uhani lab and experiments on Covid.
A major issue of the Daily Mail reported that it had found evidence that the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID) had allocated $3.7 million to scientists at the Wuhan Laboratory at the Coronavirus Leak Centre.
According to a British newspaper, a federal grant funded experiments on bats from a cave where the virus allegedly occurred.
President Barack Obama has approved $3.7 million at the request of Dr. Fawcett for a laboratory in Uhani
Biosafety Level 4 Laboratory, Wuhan Institute of Virology, where secret tests with coronaviruses were conducted until 2014
In particular:
Professor Richard Ebright of the Institute of Microbiology, Merican Biosafety Expert.
Watsman of Rutgers University, New Jersey, said that although the data showed that COVID-19 was not created at one of Ouhani's laboratories, it could easily have escaped during the analysis.
Professor Ebright said he saw evidence that scientists from the Centers for Disease Control and the Institute of Virology studied viruses with a level of protection only "level 2" and not the recommended level 4 "which provides minimum protection from contamination of laboratory workers."
He added: "The collection of viruses, cultivation, isolation or contamination of animals poses a significant risk of contamination of the laboratory worker, as well as the laboratory worker and then the public."
He concluded that the evidence left "a basis for excluding [the fact that coronavirus] is a laboratory construct, but there is no basis for excluding a laboratory accident."
Moreover, since the SARS coronavirus outbreak in 2002-2003, the NIH has funded the collaboration of Chinese scientists, American military virologists from the Fort Detrick Biological Weapons Laboratory, and National Institutes of Health (NIH) scientists from NIAID to prevent future coronavirus outbreaks by studying the evolution of virulent strains from bats in human tissues.
These efforts included research into "enhancement of function," which "accelerated the evolution of the virus" to create pandemic COVID super-bugs, improved COVID mutants on bats, more deadly and more transmissible than wild COVID.
Fawcett's research alarmed scientists around the world who complained, according to an article published in The New York Times in December 2017, that "these researchers risk creating a monstrous embryo that could break out of the laboratory and cause a pandemic."
Dr. Mark Lipsitch of the Center for Infectious Diseases of the Harvard School of Public Health told The Times:
Dr. Fauci's NIAID experiments "have given us some modest scientific knowledge and have done little to improve our pandemic preparedness, but at the same time risk causing an accidental pandemic."
Dr. Lipsic said that Fawcett's experiments at Uhani's lab posed a threat to an "accidental" epidemic.
So, as early as October 2014, after a series of failures in federal laboratories that had barely released these deadly viruses, President Obama ordered that all federal funding for Foucault's dangerous experiments be stopped (after Obama funded them himself).
NIAID-funded research on the expansion of functions continued after the moratorium at the Wuhan laboratory.
Congress should launch an investigation into the NIAID atrocities in China.