WHO scientists have been searching for a source of coronavirus in Wuhan for a month: new theories have emerged, the hypothesis of leakage from the laboratory has fallen.
We look in more detail at the conclusions reached by the international expert group and the obstacles they face.
World Health Organization (WHO) team of scientists
After several months of negotiations, attempts to cross the border, and international pressure, an international team of scientists from the World Health Organization (WHO) visited Wuhan, China.
Experts wanted to investigate, for example, which animal was the source of the coronavirus.
The first findings of the visit were that the source of the virus could not be identified.
However, new details appeared.
The virus has been circulating in China since December 2019, and there were 13 different strains.
The trip itself raised more questions than it could explain, but also disproved several theories.
Scientists worked under close scrutiny from the Chinese side, and sometimes had to "chew" the data in higher tones.
Some of the data China refused to provide, and WHO officials were not allowed to communicate with the sick or witnesses.
WHO also promised to publish a full report on the visit early next week.
The lab leak is "highly unlikely."
How did the theory come about?
Wuhan is the world's center of coronavirus research, and it was the first city to experience the Covid-19 outbreak.
This led to suspicions that the two facts were linked.
And virus leaks have already occurred in other laboratories.
Wuhan Laboratory
The process of studying coronaviruses is as follows: scientists catch bats living in the Yunnani Cave, take samples from them, and then send them to the laboratory in Wuhan, at 1.6 thousand.
km from the field research site.
The project attempts to predict and prevent coronavirus outbreaks.
They are led by Professor Shi Zhenli, known as Batwoman.
Scientists have discovered hundreds of new coronaviruses common in bats.
Specialist, Shi Zhenli Wuhan Institute of Virology
The Chinese government, the Wuhan Institute of Virology and Professor Shi deny the leak.
What did the experts learn?
The scientists themselves visited the same suspected laboratory as well as the Virology Institute in Wuhan.
First, they ruled out the possibility that the virus had an artificial origin.
With regard to the possibility of leakage, the laboratory meets all safety regulations, and there is no evidence or trace of SARS-CoV-2.
Although the incident in the laboratory was among the hypotheses of scientists, they concluded that such a scenario was "highly unlikely" and did not require further investigation.
China's Official Version - Neither.
Official version
The virus was first detected in December 2019 in Wuhan.
The outbreak was believed to have started in the local market, where flies carrying coronaviruses were traded.
Open sources
Also, Chinese authorities recently disseminated information that the virus existed in other countries even before it was detected in the PRC.
What did the experts learn?
For example, preliminary results from WHO studies indicate that coronavirus may have appeared in Wuhan two months earlier, reports The Wall Street Journal.
Scientists have not ruled out that over 90 people in central China were hospitalized with Covid-19 symptoms two months before 8 December 2019.
WHO has proposed testing blood samples from a wider population to confirm this theory, but authorities have not given permission.
Instead, the authorities handed them a print of information already processed by Chinese scientists.
Chinese specialists tested some of the 90 patients for antibodies, but found no antibodies.
Scientists have stated that China is refusing access to data for investigation.
They were unable to examine the personal data of the patients because it was confidential information.
In addition, many of those who recovered refused to meet with representatives of the organization.
Peter Ben Embarek Expert for Zoonotic Infections
According to Peter Ben Embarek, a specialist on zoonotic infections and food security, experts believe that at least 1,000 people were infected in Wuhan at the time of the outbreak, CNN reports.
These people did not experience severe disease.
Thus, China's first version of the virus was not denied until December.
Another discovery is the presence of at least 13 coronavirus mutations as of December 2019.
The researchers studied Covid-19 samples provided by China and were able to study some elements of the genetic material of the virus cells.
Some of their mutations have begun to spread from local markets and some are unrelated to them.
Data on early mutations, together with a broader study of sample analysis of patients in China in 2019, may help to determine the timing and geography of the spread of infection.
The virus passed from animal to human through an intermediate host?
Scientists have concluded that the virus entered humans through an intermediate host, that is, animals.
It is this basic theory that scientists will soon be studying, Peter Dashak, a member of an international expert group, said in an interview with The New York Times.
What animals became vectors, and where this happened, is not clear.
Pangolins and bats remain the main "suspects."
Open source
According to Dasak, data suggest that coronavirus was most likely first seen in animals in China or Southeast Asia.
Dashak mentioned that he had visited farms in China with domesticated wild animals on several...........
There are several species of wild animals, such as sun badgers, viviparous dogs and reindeer.
They could have contracted coronavirus from bats.
Subsequently, the virus could be passed on to farm workers or entered the market in Wuhan along with live or slaughtered farm animals.
The exact transmission chain will still be studied.
Outbreaks may also have occurred in other markets in other regions, but they remain unregistered.
Could the virus be transmitted through frozen food?
Experts also want to further investigate the theory of spreading the virus through the surface of frozen products by selling and transporting them.
Open sources
The market in Wuhan was mainly for frozen animal products and seafood.
And it was through these products that the virus could have entered the market in the first place.
This theory has been given the status of "highly probable."
Political theme
The WHO team is going to come to China for a second time for further research.
Authorities are often denied access to data that would help track the chain of events leading to a pandemic, and it is "very diplomatic" to get more information.
World Health Organization (WHO) team of scientists
Any such issue would be delicate in China, requiring persuasion, diplomacy, and energy.
Finding the source of the virus in China is no big priority
for the Chinese Government.
The emergence of the virus is a political problem.
It 's one of the problems, and it' s clear and obvious to everyone who 's looking at it.
, "says Peter Dashak.
Another member of the expedition, Danish immunologist Thea Colsen Fischer, in an interview with The New York Times called the investigation "highly geopolitical."
Everyone knows how much pressure is being put on China to cooperate with this investigation and how many charges may arise in this regard.
, "she said.