The one who invented COVID-19 is a genius who decided to control the world, bringing it to ruin.
And I fully sympathize with this gentleman.
Write it right.
Tatarin
Yeah, who's Peter Kenig to talk about viruses?
Another boltun who got some posts that didn't matter at all.
And I fully sympathize with this gentleman.
Write it right.
Tatarin
And I fully sympathize with this gentleman.
Write it right.
Tatarin
Everyone has their own truth.
You are not to be claimed or imposed, you must hold on to your special.
We in Sabah know better how to do it!
Yeah?
Bulgarin, which is what this man thinks about chipping people.
I've noticed a long time ago that you've been painted, that you only see American things in pink, and that everything that casts a shadow on the bright face of America makes you mad.
And unfortunately, there 's already a lot and a lot of rapid reproduction here, like this coronavirus.
It 's more like you' re going to be chipping.
And it 's quite simple.
For this there are Sloviev, Kiselev, Skabeev and Popov with Steinem.
They get good money on this, so they can buy villas in Italy, not one.
And my attitude to America is very simple.
When all the nonsense starts to be printed, and even reprinted, it creates a natural sense of protest.
What artificial virus?
What can anyone know about this who has nothing to do with biology or science?
So they 're writing to re-frame people here against the US, against the West.
I would have put forward a completely different hypothesis.
What if this virus was created in Russia and then launched worldwide?
It is surprising that Russia is the least affected.
How about that?
So?
Come on, Bulgarin, don't be shy, walk with your head raised high, which is a great honour to wear this chip.
As always the first hundred big bonuses.
Be glad you don't have to think now, everything for you is considered beyond the ocean.
Even Medusa and EH can't listen, now you get the valuable instructions directly needed.
If you review Bulgarin's comments, you will see that he regularly curses everything that is done in Russia.
He's probably a Western agent.
So many Russians curse everything that is done in Russia.
What are they, Western agents, are you our?)????????????????
But we have to go down to the realities of our lives. It was literally reported that a journalist from Perm died of pneumonia caused by the coronavirus and she had 2 children and only 36 years old.
How can we not curse what is being done here?
Do you mind if I remind you that there was something funny?
Maybe you could tell me.
Maybe I'll tell you.
They made holes in the Earth, and from there came oil, and they sold it, and for the money they earned, while the oil was costing a lot of money, they built their own palaces, they provided the children there in the West, they armed themselves so that the wells would not be taken away, and so that others would build them.
It is true that all of these were used only by the elected, so-called elite.
The true biography of this elite is heavily tainted by involvement in theft cases, in banditry, but nothing, but in the board of its own, not Western agents.
Why don't you tell me something else, huh??
Bulgarin, from those "holes in the earth" the whole country feeds.
What else are we feeding on?
We make nothing more for the wife.
And the "biography of this elite is wet" is still much less than that of the bandit elite you love of the liberal Gaidar times.
They left nothing in the country.
So you can share your memories with Khodorkovsky about the "theft and banditry."
I am from the USSR and I am not a supporter of the elites, but if not without them, God forbid we should be afraid of your liberal pro-Western.
Let us get to grips with our inner elite without calling for sanctions against the West.
First, you have to learn to feed not from holes in the Earth, but from your own labor, as many countries do.
To do so, one would have to learn from the same West.
But here 's the problem.
Better send them away.
By the way, I can feed here, not from holes on Earth.
Secondly, let us not touch the liberals.
However, the comparison is certainly not in favour of those who have been squatting in the entrances and now in power.
You would just pick up some documents, and just sites that clearly show who is who.
And who's in charge.
And third.
Why the West?
In many cases, the West has come to the aid of killers like you, from the past.
And if you break up, you can with your one way, send them to destruction, as did your puppet Stalin.
But the trouble is that the colour of the nation is killed, and there remains the hangover, which then comes back to power.
14: 02 "those who were there in the entrances" are not in power now, but somewhere in the middle business area, a little higher and a little lower.
This is exactly what you are dissatisfied with.
I would like to shake off state control and commit excesses as in your best "liberal" years, when wealth was extracted in the murky waters of chaos, leaving nothing to the people.
The fee was paid by the barter.
And in the government corporations that you hate, greedy menageries feed on shamelessness, but leave something to the people.
Yes, you 're right, of course, you should have tried to get off the oil needle in those decades, but it was your liberal bloc in government that prevented that.
Now, at last, this pro-Western financial and economic bloc seems to be in a bad mood, and it is hoped that we will finally break our economy if your beloved United States is not prevented.
Who are you to reason with Peter Kening?
Or are your posts of great importance?))
You're a naive man.
The pandemic is better than World War III, and the same result is a re-opening of the world market.
Total bullshit.
I wonder if anyone would spend five!
minutes in an English-language Google search to make sure that this Peter Koening is not a scientist at all, not a researcher and certainly not an epidemiologist.
Leave the US alone, do not re-print unverified sources.
Even assuming that he has the right to turn the back, no one will be, it is a loss of face.
Only Alga until full victory.
What are you fighting for?
What difference does it make to them?.
The truth is written by a man. I have left here on products, teeth grow 1,350 rubles.
For power I am a man, and I am supposed to die. Who are they to decide who lives and who dies?
What kind of chips, bullshit printed, and we carry them like phones anyway!
As a believer, I believe that this is a punishment for the world for the atrocities that have taken place on the earth in recent years. What the author says is very plausible. It is only regrettable that we are giving humanitarian aid to the richest nation.
Optimistic
Some kind of schizophrenia)) "" Chips, this is for Chubais - no fantasy, reality is harder.
There's something in that... something that reminds me.
What nonsense have I just read?
The pandemic was declared on 11.03.20.
That's it.
There were already 120,000 infected.
If it had been announced in January, as the author writes, the situation would have been quite different.
And so the noodles want to hang again.
But there was a change in the world order, a change in the threat to which we were not prepared morally Invisible, the sophisticated killer virus in the form of Covid 19 changed our reality. We were scared and confused, we didn't understand what happened and how we got into this nightmare.
Maybe there's no way out yet.
Reasonable, I suppose. Professor's right........
Each government, including the world, uses test balls to determine people 's willingness to respond to government initiatives.
Psychodemy is also a test ball.
I don't believe it.