Rospotrebnadzor has introduced massage regime across Russia
Universal massage is being introduced in all regions of the country because of the spread of coronavirus.
The relevant decision of the Federal Consumer Surveillance takes effect on Wednesday, 28 October.
According to the document, it is mandatory to wear a mask in public transport, taxis, elevators and parking lots.
The use of means of protection is also necessary in places of mass residence of people, noted in Rosconsume Supervision.
The agency explained that places of mass accommodation were considered to be places where more than 50 people could be accommodated at the same time.
The order does not mention fines, but if citizens violate the mass regime, the local authorities are entitled to impose additional restrictions, noted in the Rospotrebnadzor.
In particular, the document proposes to ban cafes, restaurants and entertainment from 11: 00 to 6: 00.
In addition, the Federal Office of Consumer Protection considers that it is necessary to strengthen measures to protect citizens over the age of 65 and patients with chronic diseases.
The agency recommends that measures be strengthened to disinfect transport and places of mass residence - commercial and catering establishments, places of mass cultural and entertainment activities.
The mandatory wearing of masks due to the coronavirus pandemic has been introduced in many regions of Russia.
The first region was Perm Krai, where a mass regime was introduced on 2 April.
By early May, more than half of the actors had followed Permi's example.
On 12 May, the mandatory massage regime began to operate in Moscow..
Residents of the city must wear masks and gloves when they are in shops, shopping malls, public transport, taxis, metro and workplaces.
The fine for being in Moscow transport without a mask is five thousand rubles, in other public places four thousand rubles.
According to the virologist, Professor Viktor Zuev, tightening fines for non-compliance with massage regimes could be a more effective way to combat the spread of coronavirus than blocking cities.
He believed that masks were the most effective way of protecting against the virus, and if citizens did not realize the importance of maintaining a massage regime, strict measures would have to be imposed.
However, researchers at the University of Tokyo Institute of Medicine concluded during an experiment that medical masks effectively prevent the spread of coronavirus, but do not eliminate the risk.
Another international group of scientists has shown that popular measures against the spread of coronavirus - social distancing and wearing masks - are not effective enough to contain the pandemic, although they reduce the risk of infection.
Masks prevent the spread of large drops that may contain large doses of the virus.