The prosecutor's office denied the fake invention of the coronavirus at Vector Center.
The authors of the fake report alleged that an explosion occurred in the Novosibirsk centre, followed by a virus leak, which was deliberately introduced into Wuhan.
The Prosecutor's Office of Novosibirsk Oblast found in the VKontakte social network an article "Spraying around the FBOIN of GNC" Vector, "in which it is said that the virus COVID-19 was invented in the laboratory" Vector, "because it was there that biological weapons were produced, the press service of the department reports.
The article claims that on 16 September 2019, an explosion occurred, followed by a leak of the virus, which entered the Chinese city of Wuhan to cover up a major disaster.
The author also questioned the official statistics, stating that the number of victims of the coronavirus in Novosibirsk is at least 250-300.
According to him, the authorities conceal the truth and write off all deaths for pneumonia and OCD.
According to Rinat Maksutov, the director-general of FBOIN of GNC VB "Vector" Rosconsumnadzor, in the summer of 2019 there was an explosion on the fifth floor of one of the laboratory buildings during the painting of the walls, as well as a fire on an area of 30 square meters.
The fire was quickly extinguished.
In addition, according to official data from the Regional Ministry of Health, four people died in the area from coronavirus.
The Office of the Attorney General found a fake publication, "People are being forced to shut down.
Official website of the Northern Ireland Association "Northern Ireland Association..."..
According to an anonymous source, cases of forced euthanasia of coronavirus patients were reported in hospitals in St. Petersburg.
The health committee of the Government of St. Petersburg denied this information and reported that medical care for COVID-19 patients is provided to the necessary extent.
The Prosecutor General 's Office has already asked Roskomnadzor to close access to unreliable information, including if it appears on other Internet resources.