With whose hands coronavirus is created
The Cardinal, Archbishop of Colombo Malcolm Ranjith, is convinced that the Covid-19 coronavirus was created by human hands in "the laboratory of one powerful and rich country."
The Cardinal demanded that the United Nations initiate an investigation and that the perpetrators be prosecuted for genocide and punished.
This was reported by the correspondent of the Italian newspaper Messaggero.
"Some viruses," he said, "which we have been talking about in recent days, are the product of unscrupulous experiments.
We must prohibit experiments of this kind that lead to loss of life and cause pain and suffering for all mankind... These kinds of research are not conducted by individuals in poor countries, but by laboratories in rich countries.
Doing such things is a very serious crime against humanity.
I ask God to help me find those who planted the poison.
I believe that the United Nations must step up its efforts to understand how this incident arose and to punish those responsible.
Such research should be prohibited. "
Who created the virus?
The Vatican Cardinal does not specify which country he is accusing of creating the virus, but it is easy to guess who he means by referring to the laboratory of a "rich and powerful country."
As Global Research Canada columnist Larry Romanoff recently stated, coronavirus was created in the United States.
According to him, the virus definitely did not originate in the seafood market in Wuhan, China, where the epidemic broke out.
He believes that it was most likely imported from outside and even named the location of the biological weapons laboratory.
The only possible source of coronavirus origin is the United States, because only this country has all the branches of the coronavirus evolutionary tree.
The original source of the COVID-19 virus was the US military laboratory at Fort Detrick, "Romanoff said.
The expert 's findings are based on studies by Japanese and Taiwanese epidemiologists.
He recalled that last August there was a wave of pneumonia in the United States, the source of which Americans called the weeps.
A few cases of disease ended tragically.
A doctor from Taiwan warned the United States that the cause of pneumonia could be coronavirus, but no one listened to.
Romanoff drew attention to the fact that just before the outbreak of the epidemic, the United States somehow closed its main military biolab at Fort Detrick.
Death laboratory
According to media reports, the laboratory was experimenting with dangerous microbes and toxins such as Ebola virus, smallpox, anthrax, plague, and ricin poison.
Epidemiological outbreaks were also investigated and projects were carried out for government agencies, universities and pharmaceutical companies.
In April 2019, the molecular and translational sciences division of USAMRIID released a report on the results of coronavirus studies in bats, stating that... "the lack of drugs capable of countering the activity of pancoronavirus increases the vulnerability of public health systems to the highly pathogenic coronavirus pandemic."
Before the outbreak in China on August 31, 2019, The New York Times reported on the development in the United States of a mysterious epidemic of previously unknown lung disease that had affected more than 200 people.
Cannabis, e-cigarettes and wipes were suspected.
However, those who did not smoke were also sick..
The viral and bacterial nature of severe lung disease was not excluded.
As of 1 October 2019 alone, there were 1,080 cases in 48 states and the Virgin Islands, including deaths.
Another mysterious episode involving the emergence of the virus has also come to his attention.
From 18 to 27 October last year, another World War I Games were held in Wuhan, to which the Pentagon sent a delegation of several hundred people.
In this regard, Global Research, citing Chinese social media publications, mentions five foreign athletes or other staff members hospitalized in Wuhan with an unknown infection at the time.
The subsequent explosive increase in morbidity generally corresponds to the standard incubation period of the coronavirus (about 14 days) established by the medical community.
Zhao Lixian, a Chinese MFA representative, reported on his Twitter page that a dangerous coronavirus had been brought to Wuhan by United States soldiers.
According to him, the United States must explain why the disease originated in Wuhan.
Lixian also wrote that Robert Redfield's Centers for Disease Control and Prevention had reported that prior to the outbreak in Wuhan Province in the United States, there had been cases of people dying of influenza.
However, after they died, they were diagnosed with a dangerous coronavirus..
In the United States, this move by the representative of the PRC Foreign Ministry caused outrage.
President Donald Trump has accused China of spreading false information.
During the White House briefing, he stated that "China has been spreading false information that our military has given them this [virus].
It's a lie.
And instead of arguing, I have to name where it came from.
He really came from China, "Trump said.
However, he did not say anything specific about the specific allegations made by the experts.
Meanwhile, Russian experts share the view that coronavirus could have been produced in biological laboratories beyond the ocean and then deliberately or unintentionally went out of control.
For example, former member of the UN Biological Weapons Commission Igor Nikulin stated that "COVID-19 is made up of three parts: the mouse coronavirus, the snake coronavirus and the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) component - glycoprotein.
In nature such a combination could not be made. "
As he told Tsargrad Agency, there are more than enough reasons to suspect that coronavirus is a US bioweapon.
First, time and place are too well chosen to be considered a coincidence.
Now, China and the US are at the height of a trade war, and US President Donald Trump said six months ago that if the Chinese do not reconsider, they will regret it.
Why the outbreak occurred in Wuhan, rather than in Beijing, Hong Kong, or Shanghai, is also pretty clear.
In Hong Kong, there is a pro-American movement.
There are a lot of American missions in Shanghai, almost all American companies there, and there are thousands of Americans working, if not tens of thousands.
And Beijing is the capital, there are too many controls, there are a million detention cells, the expert explains.
So they chose a place where control was relaxed, and the fact that there is an institute of virology - also good, you can bet on the Chinese that they arranged everything themselves, so successfully and under the New Year, "said Igor Nikulin.
"Moreover, in Wuhan," he continued, "there was an American consulate.
But they shut it down before the Chinese announced the epidemic, "says the expert.
So they knew in advance?
The information is also not in their favor, notes Nikulin.
That is, there are many details that show that this is not a coincidence, "the expert stressed.
He also recalled that there had never been a coronavirus on a person before 2000.
And since Americans adopted an ethnically specific biological weapons program in 1999, eight of the 38 viruses have gone from animal to human.
How the vaccine was developed
There are also reports from the United States that progress has been made in the development of a vaccine against the virus.
How exactly did the US succeed in leading other countries in developing a vaccine against COVID-19 coronavirus in a situation where this is impossible from the point of view of the technological process, such a question was asked by the famous publicist Sergey Kurginyan on the TV show "Evening with Vladimir Solovyov" on the TV channel "Russia 1."
Americans have officially announced that they are testing the vaccine, right?
How did they get there?
Unlike many others, I believe that Americans are a great technical people... but other peoples are not idiots either.
Not German, not Russian, not Chinese.
So they are so ahead of the vaccine that they cannot be technologically ahead, "Kurginyan said.
He noted that in this case the question arises as to how such technological advance occurred.
This is particularly important in a situation where the virus was first detected in China and where China seemed to be the first to develop and test a vaccine.
"" You either skip some stages of rat testing and so on, or you don 't, so when did you start this?
These stages have a chronological sequence, they cannot be passed!
Are they disrupting the technological cycle or did they have it?
And if they had it, what was it like?
Antidote?
So there's a dot? "
- Continue Kurginian.
As is well known, there are approximately 400 United States centres and laboratories in the world that develop biological weapons.
About 40 of them are located near the Russian border.
Not long ago, the Ministry of Defense of the Russian Federation accused American scientists working at the Georgian Lugar Medical Center of human experimentation.
The military agency released evidence that the US had established a secret biological weapons laboratory in Georgia, close to the Russian border, under the guise of a "medical center."
As a result of the experiments carried out there, 73 people have already died.
This sensational information was first made public by the former Minister of State Security of Georgia, Igor Giorgadze, who reported the deaths of 30 people who allegedly died in December 2015 while being treated in a laboratory for hepatitis C.
In April and August 2016, 30 and 13 people were killed, respectively.
The "cause of death" was recorded as "unknown," and no investigation was made into these facts.
The Russian Ministry of Defense has circulated an official report on US biological military activities on Georgian territory.
The report confirms the Pentagon's concept of a non-contact war.
Its essence is the use of unconventional "munitions" that are now being actively developed by Americans.
Even insects or animals infected with dangerous diseases can be weapons.
If the gin comes out of the bottle...
A version of the possible involvement of the United States in the spread of the virus is often called a conspiracy theory.
But here 's what' s interesting.
The epidemic was particularly intense in two countries - China and Italy.
Meanwhile, China is America's main economic competitor on the world stage, and Italy is its most recalcitrant ally in Western Europe, where "Putin's friend," League leader Matteo Salvini, is about to return to power.
Could this have been random?
It could be anything!
But it might not have been random.
What is more, the US has a long track record of trying to eliminate its political opponents with poisons and even biological weapons.
From the numerous assassination attempts on Fidel Castro to the strange death of Venezuela's popular leader Hugo Chávez.
But if this has already been done, why should coronavirus not be the result of such American "experiments," no longer with a leader alone, but with an entire country?
After all, they, too, had done this without hesitation before - bombed Serbia, defeated Iraq and Libya.
One might object, however, that the epidemic has now broken out in the United States itself.
But it is known that even if the genin accidentally gets out of the bottle, he starts to devour everyone indiscriminately, including those who released him.
Russian politician Franz Klintsevich has stated that he is very cautious about all conspiracy theories related to coronavirus.
However, in his view, most of the facts point to a laboratory in the United States.
"The findings are self-evident: the virus has been found to be artificial and highly likely related to American soldiers," said the politician.
Subscribe to our channels to keep up to date with the most interesting news.!!
News-Front | Yandex Zen
Television portal Television portal