Coronavirus appeared in the West earlier than was thought.
Doctors in the United States and Europe have begun to check the history of diseases to identify previously unseen cases of COVID-19, reports The Wall Street Journal.
This has already produced results that can change the perception of the world 's pandemic.
French doctors have studied the analyses of patients hospitalized with influenza symptoms from December 2019 to January 2020.
It was previously believed that the first confirmed case in Europe was reported on 24 January in France by a businessman who arrived from Wuhan, China, where a coronavirus outbreak occurred.
However, a man who had not visited China was admitted to intensive care on 27 December due to a severe cough, fever and headache.
He was discharged three days later when his condition improved.
He is believed to have contracted it from his wife, who works in the fish department at a Paris supermarket, where there are many foreign tourists as well as Chinese workers.
She became ill on 20 December.
So coronavirus appeared in Europe a few weeks before the outbreak in Italy and other countries in the region.
"In order to combat it more effectively, it is important to understand how it lives and spreads," claims Dr. Eve Cohen, a researcher in this study (quoted by WSJ).
- The virus took longer to cause the epidemic than we thought. "
In the United States, doctors have concluded that the first victim of COVID-19 was a California resident who died on February 6.
According to doctors, the woman had no serious illness and had not recently travelled.
So she was supposed to be infected in her neighborhood.
The first two fatalities were believed to have occurred on February 26 near Seattle.
The first coronavirus in the United States was discovered in Washington State in late January.
Experts do not exclude that they can identify deaths from coronavirus in the United States that occurred as early as November, writes WSJ.
They are found in New York, Connecticut, Massachusetts, and Washington.
But this may be hampered by a lack of tissue samples for testing, noted James Gill, head of the Connecticut investigation.
Not all deaths were autopsied in hospitals and nursing homes.
A new coronavirus was first detected in Wuhan in early December 2019 when local doctors began warning of SARS.
In the spring, the US and Europe became the main focus of the pandemic.
According to Johns Hopkins University, as of 6 May, more than 3.68 million infections have been confirmed worldwide, of which more than 257,000 have ended in death.