Trump's adviser's institute funded the development of virologists from Wuhan - the media
Research by scientists from the Wuhan Institute of Virology and other bat coronaviruses was funded by the United States, according to Newsweek on April 28.
The National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, headed by Dr. Anthony Fawcett, has for several years allocated a total of $7.4 million to the Chinese for experiments involving the manipulation of viruses to study their potential to infect humans.
In a review of the journal, the Institute reported that there is no evidence that SARS-CoV-2 was created in the laboratory and that the research is linked to the pandemic.
Fauci, the US chief infectious agent and adviser to President Donald Trump, has become popular through his involvement in programs to combat the epidemic, which killed 69,000 people.
Americans.
Newsweek recalls that Dr. Fawcett himself was accused of organizing questionable and dangerous experiments to infect ferrets with bird flu.
From 2014 to 2017, these works were banned in the United States.
The United States government has insisted that the coronavirus leak occurred from a laboratory in Wuhan, as stated by President Donald Trump and Secretary of State Mike Pompeo.
Pompeo said that there was a "huge amount" of evidence for this version, but he did not provide any specific details.
On April 30, the U.S. intelligence community issued a statement that the SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus had not been artificially created or modified.
The World Health Organization has called speculative allegations of a coronavirus leak from a laboratory in Wuhan.
The organizations noted that they had not yet received "any specific data from the U.S. government on the alleged origin of the virus."
The Chinese authorities believe that the virus has spread from the Huan animal and seafood market.
The SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus outbreak began in late 2019 in Wuhan.
On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organization (WHO) declared the spread of coronavirus a pandemic.