Scientists in the United States have found evidence of coronavirus in the summer of 2019.
Washington, D.C., June 9, 2020, 11: 57 a.m. - REGNUM American scientists have suggested that the coronavirus pandemic could begin as early as August 2019.
Indirect evidence of this was discovered by researchers at Harvard Medical School in the United States.
CNN News.
The experts examined satellite images of parking lots at hospitals in the Chinese city of Wuhan, where the infection began to spread.
A significant increase in the number of cars parked at five Wuhan health facilities was found in late summer and autumn 2019 compared to the previous year.
In addition, the earlier onset of the pandemic may be indicated by an anomalous surge in requests for keywords related to infectious disease in the Chinese Baidu search engine.
These are words such as "cough" and "diarrhea," which is often noted in infected COVID-19.
Also on the topic: Swedish epidemiologist believes coronavirus was introduced into the country as early as November
It should be recalled that the South China Morning Post, citing documents from the Chinese government, reported that the first case of coronavirus infection in China was registered not in December, as officially stated, but on 17 November 2019.
The first person to be infected was a 55-year-old resident of Hubei Province.
Eight more cases were reported in November.
However, none of them have been confirmed as a "zero patient," from which the infection usually starts counting.
As reported by IA REGNUM, doctors from France and Sweden have also claimed that coronavirus entered their territories in November 2019.
Read earlier in this story: Coronavirus in France could have appeared as early as November 2019 - doctors
In late December 2019, Chinese authorities reported an outbreak of pneumonia of unknown origin in Wuhan City, Hubei Province.
Experts have tentatively identified a new type of coronavirus - 2019-nCoV (later named SARS-CoV-2).
On March 11, 2020, the World Health Organization announced the COVID-19 coronavirus pandemic, which has affected 118,000 people in 114 countries.