The US initiated and funded research into new coronaviruses in Wuhan
Image: sixthtone.com
In the United States, China continues to be blamed for the coronavirus pandemic for various reasons.
For example, The Washington Post reported yesterday that the State Department had received reports from United States diplomats about the inadequate level of security and management at the Huhany biolab.
There were earlier reports that the outbreak of coronavirus was a result of a virus leak in Wuhan.
US President Donald Trump and Secretary of State Mike Pompeo called the virus "ear-to-ear..........
The U.S. government itself initiated and funded the search for new coronaviruses in Wuhan.
The project closed unexpectedly - a month before the outbreak of the epidemic in the Chinese metropolis.
The government's Emerging Pandemic Threats (EPT) program was launched by USAID in 2009.
Predict sought to strengthen the monitoring and laboratory capabilities of selected countries to study wildlife and people in contact with animals to detect new and known virus agents that could pose a serious threat to public health.
In Asia, the programme of the United States Government was extended to Thailand, Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, Viet Nam and China.
In 2014, USAID reported the success of the program and announced its continuation, EPT 2.
"It focuses on reducing the impact of new pathogens that originate from animals, in order to enable early identification of new disease threats, effective control of these threats, to increase the preparedness of countries to respond to disease outbreaks and reduce the risk of these diseases, by changing human behaviour and practices that" trigger "the spread of new pathogens," states USAID's booklet on EPT 2 (Predict 2).
It also indicates that partners in the programme are the State Wuhan Institute of Virology and the American non-governmental organization EcoHealth Alliance.
The latter made clear the role of its scientists in the project: "EcoHealth Alliance is working at the front line testing high-risk wildlife in Bangladesh, Côte d'Ivoire, the Republic of the Congo, China, Egypt, India, Indonesia, Jordan, Liberia, Malaysia and Thailand.
After scientists collect smears or a small amount of blood, they analyze samples in the laboratory to find signs of disease.
The results are entered into a database that mathematical experts use to produce predictive maps of potential disease outbreaks.
This approach not only allows researchers to identify new diseases, but also helps communities prepare for and respond to the outbreak threat. "
What scientists at the Wuhan Institute of Virology and the EcoHealth Alliance have been doing together can be learned from research published on the website of the American Society of Microbiology (NCBI).
For example, "Serological evidence of coronavirus infection associated with SARS bats in humans, China," published in March 2018.
The work was funded by the National Science Foundation of China, the National Research Foundation of Singapore and the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) and the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases of the National Institutes of Health.
It was attended by 16 scientists from the Wuhan Institute of Virology's Key Laboratory for Special Pathogens and Biosafety, the Chinese Academy of Sciences University in Beijing, the Wuhan School of Health Sciences, the Wuhan Province's Key Laboratory for Zoological Control and Prevention, the Dali University School of Public Health, the Duke NUS Medical School in Singapore and the American EcoHealth Alliance.
Image: ncbi.nlm.nih.gov.
Southern China is considered to be the main habitat of bats that carry coronaviruses.
And in Yunnan province in 2015, scientists took serum samples from 218 residents of four villages located near the Yanza and Shitou caves.
They had previously studied bats living there and discovered a wide variety of coronaviruses.
In the laboratory of Uhana, the project discovered six people carrying coronaviruses.
Two of them were infected with the SARS-Cov virus and, if they did, with weak symptoms, scientists noticed.
This work enabled them to discover that bats can transmit coronavirus directly to humans.
During the investigation, samples of serum were taken from the residents of Wuhan, but no coronaviruses were found.
A year earlier, the same scientists published another scientific study, "The discovery of a rich gene pool of SARS-related coronaviruses in bats gives a new look at the origin of SARS coronaviruses."
We conducted a five-year study (April 2011 to October 2015) to find SARSr-CoVs in bats in one habitat - near the city of Kunming in Yunnan Province.
It is mainly inhabited by bats.
We collected 602 swabs and stool samples and tested them for coronaviruses.
84 samples gave a positive result, "says the work.
Scientists have specified that 64 of the 84 cases have been found to be SARS-CoV.
11 are new to researchers.
They added to the collection of Wuhan's laboratory.
Researchers noted that the SARS-CoV virus, which caused the SARS outbreak in China in 2002-2003, was caused by the recombination of viruses in bats.
The study was also partially funded by the US National Institutes of Health and USAID under the EPT program.
The British Daily Mail claims that the US government spent $3.7 million on it.
Image: ncbi.nlm.nih.gov.Caption
The U.S. government also provided funding for tests of the mouse coronavirus SHC014 and its potential human impact in 2015.
As EADaily has already written, Chinese and American scientists have created a chimeric virus - from the surface proteins SHC014 and SARS virus, adapted to grow into mice and mimicking human disease.
One of the latest work sponsored by USAID in China is "Characterization of a new species of alfakoronavirus with unique genomic features in the bats Rhinolophus."
It was published on the NCBI website less than a year ago and reported the discovery of a new virus, which could also have been stored in the Ochny Laboratory.
China has thus become a full-fledged testing ground for the viruses that could and did cause the pandemic.
On the one hand, the Asian country is their source, which is important for scientists.
On the other hand, however, the Wuhan Institute of Virology is 900 km away from the region where coronavirus vectors live, and China itself has long been called by scientists as the most "promising" place to start a future pandemic because of overcrowding and the tradition of eating rare animals.
Perhaps the explanation is that in the United States, apart from Plam Island, research into dangerous zoonotic diseases has been banned since 1948.
They are authorized only by a separate order of the Minister of Agriculture.
But in China, even the best idea of preventing pandemics by detecting new viruses could have created a time bomb.
In 2018, the Johns Hopkins University Center for Health Safety warned that working with respiratory viruses is extremely dangerous.
In particular, the experts did not deny that a new pandemic could also start because of the leakage of dangerous pathogens from laboratories: "Since there is a high probability that a pandemic will start because of RNA-containing respiratory viruses, special attention should be paid to research into these agents if they can increase the pandemic risks.
Although many studies of this class of viruses are low-risk, experiments on antiviral resistance, vaccine resistance, and enhanced transmission, for example, can cause serious biosafety problems in case of regulatory failure. "
The EPT 2 project (Predict 2) ended just one month before the outbreak of the new coronavirus epidemic in Wuhan.
The White House suddenly stopped funding the $200 million program.
This marked the end of the era of identifying new coronaviruses in China and studying them in Wuhan, initiated and funded by the United States.
A new era has come - the very epidemic of the new coronavirus Covid-19, which is causing the SARS-Cov-2 virus.
What events caused the emergence of a new coronavirus among the inhabitants of Wuhan is not yet known.
All we know is that before the epidemic in this Chinese metropolis, there were only two biolaboratories.
At the initiative of and at the expense of the United States Government.
American scientists have already recognized that what happened to the Chinese was somehow wrong.
We work very closely with Chinese scientists.
We 've been incredibly open to laboratories in China for the last 15 years, since SARS.
We 're collaborating on the most dangerous viruses, and we' ve got incredible information that helps public health around the world.
And now it's all under threat, "said EcoHealth Alliance president Peter Dashak after Chinese scientists accused him of leaking a dangerous virus from a laboratory in Wuhan.
EADaily analysis