Operation Coronavirus 2020, adrenochrome and paedophile-satanists
Many
(really many, we didn't even expect)
For readers' requests, we understand the conspiracy theory of the "Hollywood paedophile cult," coronavirus and adrenochrome.
And a little bit about Bill Gates, what without him.
We will tell you about the results immediately:
1) Androchrome is not a drug and does not resemble heroin, it is not even listed as a banned substance and is legally sold.
2) The conspiracy theory was launched as early as 2017 and is a mixture of numerous other conspiracy theories.
During this time, he had many followers.
(3) All points of the theory are manipulative, invented or falsified (as in the case of Gates) and differ little from the version of the secret world government of Masons or Reptilians.
(4) The "new" theory uses a huge number of long-discarded fakes.
Warning - save your brain by reading the background.
You 've probably never seen this kind of nonsense before.
Go!
Background
On April 4, Spletnik.ru published the post "Operation Coronavirus 2020 or Arrest of Half of Hollywood."
Summary of the theory:
Under the guise of quarantine, Trump decided to purge the world of paedophiles from Hollywood (Madonna, Tom Hanks, Quentin Tarantino, etc.), the establishment of the Democratic Party (Barack Obama, Hillary Clinton, Joe Biden, Bush, etc.), and the Vatican.
In the same list Angela Merkel, Justin Trudeau, the English Queen, the world government - all prepared "500 thousand.
Indictments. "
Attention!
- They all use adrenochrome derived from the blood of children sacrificed by these Satanic vampires of the world elite.
Without adrenochrome, they rapidly age and begin to suffer from drug "debris"
I'm sorry.
However, it is better than the author of the post and the authors of dozens of videos on YouTube not to tell.
Just look at the video below.
In addition, the conspiracy theory states that Hanks was not actually infected with coronavirus, but was arrested by the U.S. military, is on a cargo ship, and is awaiting a military tribunal.
Wuhan's special role in Trump's plans to rid the world of the world's satanic elite is also mentioned:
The synthetic Adrenochrome produced in Wuhan, China, was deliberately infected with a particular type of Coronavirus.
Anyone who has taken the damaged Adrenohr will be forced to pass a blood test.
The test will prove the consumption of Adrenohr from Wuhan.
This is Prima Facia Evidence, which is serious enough evidence to start a criminal case.
. "
We have preserved the author's style and orthography.
In general, the narrative in itself seems to be nonsense.
Or that the author misinterpreted the first season of The Real Detective, the films Fear and Hate in Las Vegas and Stephen King's book Doctor Dream (a 2019 film of the same name starring Ian McGregor).
Usually, in such clinical cases we do not make invoices but yield to the requests of readers.
In addition, new connoisseurs refer to Q
(QAnon is gaining momentum in the United States and has been in existence since about 2017.)
Aut)
I'm sorry.
In fact, QAnon in America is already a mass consciousness phenomenon that has an army of followers and it 's worth writing about.
But everything's fine.
Tom Hanks and paedophilia charges
Let's start with Tom Hanks never getting arrested.
But it's really Tom Hanks on Instagram.
Followers actually accuse him, Madonna, and other celebrities of Satanism, sadism, and child murder.
Under his post-hospital photo, there are many such comments:
There are about 107,000 comments under this photo.
Congratulations on the recovery are interspersed with accusations of paedophilia (in general, it is the same as the author of the post on Spletnik, which, it turns out, only conveyed the essence of the "discourse" that has existed since 2018).
We didn 't go into detail to look at the publications of the other Hollywood stars mentioned.
Got Tom Hanks.
So, Tom, another letter, oh, I mean, comment came in.
What about the adrenochrome?
He said, "They cut the bone marrow and extract the blood...
The site's reporters found a rare and carefully hidden 1971 document.
It was said that Adrenochrome works as a heroin... "QAnon / Spletnik
Verdict: False and misleading
Adrenochrome is a product of epinephrine oxidation, is not a drug, and has no "rejuvenating" properties.
Adrenaline in turn is produced by the adrenal brain cells.
The epiphyses produce adrenoglucirotropin and serotonin, among other hormones.
But let 's continue with the adrenochrome.
In the 1950s and 1960s, researchers A. Hoffer, J. Smitis, and H. Osmond published a number of papers on the adrenochromic theory of schizophrenia.
In their hypothesis, adrenaline can cause hallucinations.
The molecular structure of mescaline resembles that of epinephrine and norepinephrine, so it is possible that schizophrenia is the result of chemical imbalance in the body.
In 1967, Hoffer and Osmond published a book, Hallucinogens, in which three chapters are devoted to adrenochrome and its derivatives.
It is widely known that Osmond was the one who proposed to treat alcoholism with LSD.
However, the hypothesis remains a hypothesis.
For the scientific community, it is not even a particular subject of controversy.
That is, one might assume that adrenochrome is a hallucinogen (but this is not true), but the fact that its effects are similar to heroin, causing a sense of euphoria, is obvious profanation.
Not to mention rejuvenating properties.
It should also be noted that synthetic epinephrine and adrenochrome can be purchased legally on the websites of farmers and are not included in the list of banned drugs.
Derivatives of adrenochrome are used in the treatment of bleeding.
Why is adrenochrome the subject of conspiracy theory?
He is known for his literary fiction and the epic popular writers.
Adrenochrome appears as a satanic drug in Hunter Thompson's Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas and Terry Gilliam's film of the same name.
It is also featured with a misspelled name in Anthony Burgess' The Orange Bowl.
Another film, called Adrenochrome (apparently a category B film), has recently been released.
So what Hollywood fought for is what it fought for.
The Stanislavsky system worked.
One of the two, either citizens fully believe what 's going on on the screen, or they believe that they' re living like a movie.
However, this is the second case after the Martian attack.
What is QAnon?
The Washington Post and our colleagues at Snopes, citing The Conversation, devoted their material to this phenomenon of public life (the cradle of flat Earth theory) and the role of social networks in its dissemination.
Supporters of, say, the entire QAnon movement seriously believe that Donald Trump is secretly leading a bizarre enforcement scheme to end the global paedophilia network run by liberal politicians and celebrities, including Tom Hanks.
And it all started with messages on 4chan in 2017, where a user named Q left the post with a hint of Hillary Clinton's imminent arrest.
In addition, Q began writing about the worldwide conspiracy of paedophiles-Satanists, becoming a follower, and conspiracy theory, becoming a subject of various details and actively replicating in social media.
It is worth noting that shortly before Q, an anonymous post published prior to the 2016 U.S. presidential election led to the so-called Pizza Hut.
QAnon is now a well-formed social (perhaps even socio-political) movement whose activists are broadcasting reviews of their agenda based on what America (yes, what America is, the world!)
is run by a criminal elite made up of satanic paedophiles.
Allegation: In the US, about 460,000 + children are missing every year, although the true numbers may be higher than QAnon
Verdict: Manipulation
This claim was met both on Spletnik.ru and in comments by Tom Hanks.
Indeed, according to the FBI, in 2018 there were 401,218 reported missing children under the age of 18.
However, 29,758 children were missing at the end of the year.
Of those reported, about 99 per cent return home (or return home) alive (2012).
As we can see from the hysteria described above on Instagram and in the videos on YouTube, the new type of coronavirus has also found its place in this paradigm of QAnon '..............
He is allegedly being used by Donald Trump to cleanse the world of Hollywood Satanists.
What about Bill?
Among other things, current conspiracy theories (as they diverge in parallel) once again appeal to Bill Gates' claims that all of this was intended to reduce the planet's population by 10-15% and that he "financed the development of the coronavirus."
Verdict: Lie
Gates has never argued for a reduction in Earth's population, and scientists around the world agree that the virus has a natural origin.
The filmmakers use the recording of Gates' TED 2010 speech.
At the time, Gates was not talking about reducing the Earth's population, but about reducing population growth through improved health and quality of life.
A detailed discussion of this speech can be found in the archive "Lenty.ru" (another, old one).
And just the speech - see below, the section on population - at the fifth minute.
Bill Gates does not mention a 10-15% reduction in the population.
He said that growth had been reduced.
Simply put, this is the translation of a passage from which connoisseurs make fakes:
Let's take a look.
The first suspect is the population.
Today, there are 6.8 billion people in the world, and that number will rise to about 9 billion.
With major advances in new vaccines, health care, and reproductive health, growth could decline by 10-15 per cent, but it is still an increase of about 1.3 billion.
Bill Gates
Fake is based on a lack of knowledge of many English languages, and in the case of media, it is simply rendered without context (by editing), and appeals to the inattention of readers and viewers.
With a lot of numbers and data in one sentence, it 's not surprising that some believe in spiritualists.
In the meantime, the Gates Foundation is actually making significant funding available to combat coronavirus.
Outcomes
The stress caused by the pandemic and quarantine has fueled people's desire to find conspiracy answers to difficult questions.
Analysts are not sure whether this conspiracy theory works for Trump.
Whether it was organized by the president's supporters or vice versa - with the conniving aim of showing how gullible, say, his crooks are.
All points of the theory are manipulative, invented or falsified and differ little from the version of the secret world government of masons or the introduction into the government of aliens.
All of the circulating videos are recompiled with old conspiracy theories, and are made almost the same, simply with different timers and different numbers of videos used.
We urge you to guard your mind and read reliable sources.
And then you will have no fear of Masons, no Satanists, no Reptilians.
Contribute to the fight against disinformation!