The expert pointed to the need to wear a mask after COVID-19 vaccination
Citizens who have been vaccinated against coronavirus infection still need to use personal protective equipment, such as a medical mask.
This was announced on Thursday, 31 December, by the Vice-Rector for Clinical Work and Additional Vocational Education, Head of Department of Faculty Therapy No. 1 of Sechenov University, Corresponding member of the Russian Academy of Sciences, Professor Viktor Fomin.
The expert indicated that a mask should be worn even though the patient had passed the second stage of vaccination and had developed antibodies, as no vaccine in the world offered 100 per cent protection against the virus.
"Moreover, I took a second dose, but I didn't stop wearing the mask, I would have said so.
No vaccine against any virus gives 100% guarantee, so all the anti-epidemic measures that are of a general nature and the mask plays a primary role here have not been cancelled, "he said on the FM News.
Fomin recommended that citizens undergo a PCR test and antibody analysis prior to vaccination against coronavirus.
In addition, he said, the vaccinator needs to remember whether he or she has had an undesirable reaction to any other vaccine.
He also noted that the patient should not show signs of respiratory illness, including drowsiness, before being vaccinated against infection.
In response to a question as to whether a sneeze is a sign that a person does not have a coronavirus, Fomin stated that this was not true.
He noted that the most likely signs of infection were loss of smell and taste.
The day before, Russian Deputy Prime Minister Tatyana Golikova recommended that citizens refrain from drinking alcohol for a few days while vaccinating against COVID-19.
Large-scale vaccination against coronavirus began in Russia on 15 December and in Moscow on 5 December.
The first vaccine in Russia and the world against the coronavirus Sputnik V, developed by the Gamalei Center, was registered on August 11.
The drug's efficacy was 91.4%.
For severe cases, COVID-19 was 100 per cent effective.
Current information on coronaviruses is available on the websites stopcoronavirus.rf and alalamp.rf, as well as on the hashtag # MyTogether.
Coronavirus hotline: 8 (800) 2000-112.