Railwaymen remind Tambovs to wear masks
Tambov-1 railway station was raided, during which citizens were reminded of the need to wear masks.
Although most passengers are conscious, there are also those who believe that this requirement can be ignored.
The raid reminded them of the consequences of irresponsible behaviour.
The railway station is the object of transport infrastructure.
There is strict compliance with anti-epidemic safety rules.
Staff regularly treat the surfaces with disinfectants and make sure that all people inside the station are wearing masks..
If the masks don't show up and the train is about to leave, the forgetful passenger will be handed over to the search area.
Most people at the station admit to wearing masks to protect themselves from respiratory infections.
The fact that the invisible and insidious enemy is close at hand is constantly reminiscent of the growth of disease statistics.
Even in this situation, however, there are those who consider wearing a mask unnecessary.
On the Tambov-Oblovka suburban train, the attention of the inspectors attracted several people.
The school-age girl at first refused to wear a mask, but when people in uniform politely explained to her why it was necessary, the young passenger changed her mind.
The purpose of the raid, emphasize the inspectors, not to punish but to warn.
Protocols only apply to persistent offenders who, despite any warnings, expose themselves and others to contamination.
In this case, the amount of the fine may be between one and thirty thousand rubles.
The amount is determined by the court.
In addition, members of the raid are warned that the mask must cover the respiratory organs.
If, for example, she only covers her chin, this is also considered a violation.
Each such case is recorded by the transport police.
The trains run not only at Tambov railway station, but also at stations located in other cities and towns of the region.
They include employees of JSC "Prigorodnaya Passenger Company" Chernozemje, "the management of Rospotrebnadzor on rail transport, employees of the transport procurator and the police, representatives of the management of roads and transport of the region.
They remind passengers not only of the need to wear masks, but also of anti-epidemic safety rules such as gloves, antiseptics and social distance.
During the raid, the inspectors also contacted passengers of the Tambov-Michurinsk and Tambov-Umet suburban trains.
In one case, the law enforcement officers had to draw up a protocol.
In our region, there are a total of nine cases of mass violations in rail transport.
Igor Chekhanov