Igor Panarin: "Operation COVID-19 is a game to overthrow Putin, Trump, and Xi Jinping"
We are in a circle of enemies!!
The horses are not changing!! "
General Shaymuratov was born in the village of Bishtyaki Ufa Governorate.
In 1965, it was renamed Shaymuratovo.
In 2011, the village of Shaymuratovo became known throughout Russia thanks to a monetary-currency experiment, the author of which was economist Rustam Davletbayev, who since 2016 works in Tatarstan in Innopolis.
Today he is the head of the Distributed Registry Systems Centre.
In 2011, businessman Artur Nurgaliev and economist Rustam Davletbayev introduced the local currency - "shaymuratiki" - in the village of Shaymuratovo in the context of the crisis.
This meant that they could not be stored - they lost their value every day, which encouraged their holders to put them in circulation as soon as possible.
A partial transition to the local currency dramatically revitalized the village's microeconomy: the turnover grew by 12 times at once.
The experiment also significantly improved the company's economy and effectively saved it from bankruptcy.
The head of CB Elvira Nabiulina is from Ufa.
And she knows very well about Shaymuratov, Shaymuratiki and Rustam Davletbaev.
The actual owners of the Russian CB are the Fed, which is owned by private shareholders called "owners of money."
There is a theory that the coronavirus pandemic was actually declared by the owners of the money.
One of the goals of this special operation is the collapse of the Russian economy and the change of political regime.
Putin has awarded the title of Hero of Russia to General Shaymuratov, thereby sending money-holders a message that he has the technology to bring Russia's economy out of crisis.
I fully agree with you, but I had previously offered oil, gas, metals, wood, bread, meat and oil to be sold for rubles in order to establish real parity between rubles and dollars, but you can use the idea of Panarin and sell for ACCURE, so if one barrel to be sold, for example for 3 (3) ACCURE then the parity of this currency will already be 10 dollars for ACCURE, please pass my idea to Davletbaev.
This pseudo-analyst of the book should write, but only fantastic.
Both Chinese and Russian virologists claim that the virus is of natural origin.
And this global conspiracy is looming.
Even assuming that this is a global conspiracy, this anal-retentive thinks that the people who organized it are so stupid that they don 't realize that there' s a very high probability that the epidemic has failed to get under control.
And then he is a tyrant to all, regardless of wealth and other virtues.
They claim to deny the biological attack.
Reliable sources indicate that the virus is extraterrestrial in nature and landed on meteorites launched from the Arachnid planet.
But that's not exactly...
He came from the planet Nibiru, I dare say.
After the words that we are good, that oil prices have dropped and good people that then agreed to reduce production (the reminder refused 500 thousand, agreed 2.5 million).... can not be read.
And I get to understand some of the mechanisms of events happening after reading his interview I recommend to finish it, and preferably read it again.
Could it be the Third World War?
Why does it have to be with tanks and multi-million-dollar armies?
The Third World War ended with the defeat of the Soviet Union and its collapse.
It is now in the midst of a fourth world that is likely to end in Russia's complete defeat.
The West decided that Carthage should be destroyed.
Rome Dashkin
Likewise!
Must read to the end!
This is followed by another crisis, social tensions and unpopular measures.
It is hard to see the benefits and benefits for the Russian economy from these crafty moves.
So soon you'll be toothless!
Russian virologists also want to hide the fact of biological attack?!
If you like the version of the world conspiracy, let 's go deeper into Rehn' s topic and suggest that this planet is getting rid of the parasitic people on it.
Well, Nature kind of cleans up by destroying pests.
How about this hypothesis?
- Curious news: only one American television channel, Fox News, reported constructively that, after Putin and Trump telephoned on April 1, a Russian AN-124 aircraft with cargo to help combat coronavirus landed at New York airport.
And no more of the numerous American media!
But it's customary.
Donald Trump works with 92% of his media coverage negative, and only 8% neutral or supportive.
More on "BIZNES Online": https: / / www.business-gazeta.ru / article / 464732 Smiles have now become a global weapon capable of shaping the opinion of huge masses of people and changing the course of history Thank you BO for bringing an alternative view to the events taking place
At 6: 55 p.m., it was necessary to understand that the Americans had taken these precautions against the virus, and then there would be no need to think about humanitarian aid.
And he didn't say that help from Russia.
Help to fight.
Two Big Differences
Russia has sent the means of honey technology to save children, you will soon learn everything, and while people do their job and protect us from everything, only idiots can't control their curiosity and fuel panic.
The hypothesis is rich.
The role of the Russian Federation in world politics has been reassessed.
It is the only country in the world that can fully resist all the military might of the Western world and destroy it if necessary.
So small?
It is the only country in the world that can fully resist all...
There is nothing wrong with liberal values when they pursue their well-disguised policy of seizing an entire state under the cover of liberal values.
Wow, optimistic.
It turns out you have good minds, not so bad.
Liberalism is the primacy of the individual over the public.
Survival of the species is possible if otherwise.
Liberalism thus leads mankind to its death.
What we're watching.
The leadership of the Russian Federation is hampered by the imperial-Soviet state mentality.
And the British are not hindered by the imperial mentality?
What's wrong with that?
Where does that prove bad?
must be a slave mentality to please everyone?
13.23 So you have a slave mentality.
In the same state, there cannot be all emperors and holders)))) Those who worship the emperors are slaves.
Or are you family...?
Bad comparison.
The British Empire has long since released its colonies: the United States, Australia, Canada...
Where the yuro hasn't released yet, read it.
Apart from the United States, the head of these countries does not have a queen or president.
So the question is, did they actually release their colonies?
Not to be released, but to be forced, under pressure, including in the front line of Russia, to abandon this policy.
Not to the end.
You are not aware that in 15 countries, members of the United Nations, the head of the government is the Queen of England.
The Russian Federation must stop meddling in all the world's problems.
Who determined that?
TV set.
I haven't read half of the interviews yet, and I've already felt the gayness of the local fifth column in the comments, and I'm not mistaken.
Why are there so many?
A couple of years ago, there were only one.
They have a vaccine.
Panarin can be agreed, can be disagree, but he deserves respect, like any person with principles and position.
At least he is bent on protecting Russia's interests, not against the country.
I totally agree.
Is this your conclusion based on the interview?
Black.
Defending Russia's Pan-Aryan interests causes rage among Russia's opponents and haters, including many commentators on the BBC.
He's got me too.
There is considerable circumstantial evidence that the COVID-19 pandemic was a biological weapon that was deployed, primarily against China and Iran, but "bounced" against its creators.
All experts on biological warfare say that traditionally strategists have been skeptical of biological warfare precisely because it tends to "jump," hit its own, and create returns. ".....
).
Here 's the most ancient version of this. Reading information and access to Panarin' s information, I think we can trust him.
There is considerable circumstantial evidence that the COVID-19 pandemic was a biological weapon...
17.43 You are the first opponent of Russia because you think it should be hated.
And stop hiding in Russia!!
To be an enemy of the rule of your homeland and to be an enemy of the homeland is the earth and heaven.
But you don't understand.
7: 46.
Don't be sarcastic, you are Russia's enemies.
Because for your purposes you are prepared to surrender, sell and betray Russia.
20.26 Well, even if they were and are ready, until no one is going to buy or accept it.
Or do you know those who wish to enlighten us?
If no one wants Russia, why surround it with military bases, preserving them and approaching our borders even after the renunciation of socialism.
Why impose different sanctions?
Why interfere in our internal affairs by pushing liberals to the Maidan to seize power and turn the country into a protectorate for the Americans?
This does not sound like indifference to our lands.
Joke.
To be an enemy of the order is to be an enemy of the army.
To be an enemy of the army is to be an enemy of the country.
Well, every joke is always just a fraction of a joke.
Follow the words.
I dropped a stone, follow the circles.
You tell me why the tsar policy didn't cause so much controversy because the tsar was a common home and Russia was for the Russians.
I sympathize with you Igor Panarin, a literate political scientist everything is available to me I like his remarks Russia our Great Power and must help it And I say that we have a literate President I believe Vladimir Putin Zinaida Sazonov
You are not right not to publish my comment you are the enemies of Russia? I have the right to express My comment please let people read if not explain why you refused me if so I do not hide I Sazonov Zinaida and very much love Russia This is my homeland
Sometimes a foolish defence of interests leads to opposite results.
Rome Dashkin
Much of what he wrote is credible, with the exception of events in Russia.
The measures now being taken would be much more effective if the government of ALL those coming from abroad were to quarantine immediately after the first information about the virus appeared.
The neglect of the Government and the President has led to the spread of contagion throughout the country and the need to block the whole country into isolation and unemployment...
Why is it that one of the richest natural-resource powers - the Russian Federation, through its authorities and administration - does not, like the United States, Singapore, and the European countries, provide direct material assistance to Russian citizens for the purchase of products and medicines?
What, all the money was appropriated by oligarchs and embezzlers?
Moreover, why does the Russian Federation, through the same authorities and administration, provide material, medical and other assistance as a matter of priority to foreign States (for example, Italy, the United States) and not to citizens of the Russian Federation?
Is that legal?
Meanwhile, the king of Koschey is waiting for the gold in 18 trillion roubles...
And why do you think the person who organized this is even thinking about people?
My own and others.
The organizers, if they are protected, cannot see the others even under the microscope.
Ordinary people have fewer viruses.
They want to call themselves gods.
In the first world, chlorine was also used as a weapon.
And he flew into the trenches of the enemy and into the trenches of those who scattered him.
Whole trenches are extinct.
And who needed it?
Laughing with laughter, and people with that kind of thinking make important decisions in the country.
This is our reality.
And it's terrible.
That this is a biological weapon I said right after the coronavirus report... any thinking person immediately understands that...
They don't think of anything, the year Margaret Thatcher said about a billion people, you think she reasoned like you did, or you think she came up with it, because of the way you protect our strength,
You need to read Navalny less.
And you'll be happy.
And your Russian virologists have long been funded by the United States.
But Navalny won't tell you that.
You should listen less to Navalny.
Your Russian virologists are funded by the United States.
But Navalny won't tell you about it..
Why a runner?
Instability.
Possibility to solve many problems quietly and quickly.
That Umelek is that Lysenko.
Russia's Economic Crisis (Report).
10-13 years ago.
The conspiracy theory that everyone knows and discusses is bullshit.
A conspiracy is always kept secret if it is revealed and another conspiracy is born.
I know and believe in this theory.
Our rich and poor, our working people are poor and a social worker has been kidnapped.
How do they manage to stay rich without conspiracy to explain
Now we found the culprit in the collapse of industry and the economy, it 's a coronavirus.
Such a "powerful" economy that depends on oil.
Not even the DHs in the country announced that they would not be accountable to the people and business.
And this expert, who 's got money from the budget, is going to brainwash people.
Digital petrol station with spiritual pins and a deep people
The country and economy collapsed during the liberal rule of the 1990s.
After the Liberals were ousted from politics and partly from the economy, gradual growth began.
Now, at last, liberals are being pushed out of the financial and economic bloc, so there is hope for economic growth.
Putin is today the guarantor of the non-return of liberals, and thus of the country's integrity.
In the 1990s, most factories, factories and people had jobs, but after the 1990s, these factories went bankrupt and were liquidated.
You don't have to translate arrows.
He has been in power for 20 years and has still not put the country in order and will not put it in order, his time is up.
He was due to leave after two terms in 2008, but the authorities opened his head before he collapsed.
The integrity of the country should not be worried when the authorities care for the welfare of the people, not the elite, but if the people are unhappy when they are left out of work, they eliminate the social gains of the USSR, such as raising the retirement age, will such a country want to protect the people themselves?
What is everyone writing anonymously about?
Brad
On September 9, 1998, at an international conference in Linz, Austria, he first proposed the possibility of the United States breaking up in six parts in 2010, showing the conference participants a map..............
More on "BIZNES Online": https: / / www.business-gazeta.ru / article / 464732 This fact is sufficient to appreciate the ability and visionary talent of the political scientist from the KGB Panarin.
He is as successful as Sechin, an oilman.
They went to the United States and broke up. What don't you know?
Only in some other way...
10.02 LDPR - you are, it turns out, creatures from the parallel world!
(See)).
Sechin's attempt to inflate the slanders and Saudis rocketed the Russian budget and brought the country's oil and gas sector to the brink of collapse.
Who's after that? Five columns, liberal?
Or a superpatriot?
Sechin did kick the Saudis and the Slanders, because the Saudis have gone down the same way as Russia, and the US Slanders have reduced the number of rigs operating from 700 to 500 in the last three weeks.
It's called after my grandmother I wash my ears.
Look at their currency.
He is the man of a system that has benefited from bringing down a country 's market and boosting the dollar' s value to buy a much cheaper shell from the CB for the expensive dollar from the NBF.
And who owns the CB?
Who does Nabiulina work for?
Right.
Basically, the deal on the CB is to shift from the left pocket to the right.
But $2 trillion from the NBF on that ear. Children, I 'm sorry, but there' s no money for food, because Dad bought a refrigerator from Mom.
Sometimes.
Help from the budget!
9: 19.
Like Rogozin, a cosmonaut.
A very good start.
Read until he supports zeroing.
No further action.
This is the principle: stability is a sign of skill.
He's been talking about the same thing for 40 years.
Stability!
This political scientist didn't even have to work hard!
He has written a number of articles on the history of the Soviet Union, and has published a number of articles on the history of the Soviet Union, including the article "The History of the Soviet Union."
10: 49.
Stability is stagnation.
The stability of power - stability - stagnation.
There are some points that need attention.
And that 's how fantasy works in humans.
The general approach is correct.
And in detail, anyone can be wrong.
A foreign opinion is a lie..
These are the masters of polemics.
Intolerance of dissent is deep in the genes of Russians.
No, it 's just the general approach that' s funny, the details are worth..
No, no, no, no, no, no, no.,..
Space Day!
Forgive us, Yura...
Oh, my... right.
Forget it!
Merry Christmas!
Thank God, Yuri Alexeyevich left in time...
He remained a man and a hero in the hearts of people... who would guarantee that a couple of Tereshkova would not stand on the podium...
Tereshkova Prost))
10.59 What do you ask forgiveness of Yura?
Let Tereshkov and Ko ask.
There's no need for Tereshkova to apologize.
She told the truth, but not yours, but mine, for example, Panarin, many of the ordinary people I know.
And since our truth with Tereshkova is not the same as yours, the truth never ceases to be the truth..................
Who's Jura?
Galtsev?
Yeah, I know.
14: 52 This is the true face of the "liberals" here.
The utter darkness
Realist.
Putin's Left-Restored Turn?
I haven't read anything funny in ages.
In an attempt to appease the authorities, the limits of common sense have already crossed.
You have long spoken out in the service of Soros' ideas.
As you dreamy owls have gone with your typical mantras about Soros, the Rothschilds and your favorite Dalles plan.
Other methodists haven't been down for ages?
10: 00?
Keep serving.
Or you 're dark and you don' t understand what you 're getting in your ears, or you' re just a fool and you 're incorporating negative, obvious facts.
But that's what your ideologues need, people with ordinary brains don't keep there.
Deliver as desired for actual
Yeah!
Lenin would be shocked by such Jesuit logic!
Meanwhile, the standard of living of the population is falling and falling
Attempting to justify incompetence and incompetence
The Rothschilds are descended from the Khazars, whose history is related to the Pechenegs.
Putin meant the Rothschilds when he spoke of Pechenegs and Cumans.
Putin was referring to Plevaco's lawyer when he spoke of Pechenegs and Polovs.
We are in a circle of enemies!!
The horses are not changing!! "
in the fifties there was in America such a Defense Secretary forestol who all said that this sssr is going to attack on ssha and demanded more and more money for defense in the end when this mania got too acute he jumped out of the high house with the cries of Russian tanks in Washington please don't jump out of the high house Russian shell
That was the way it was in the 1940s, but not the point, the point is that the virus showed how small Russia was on the world stage.
It marked the blood flow, the global flow of people all over the world.
Russia is in this stream at the level of the God-forsaken uninhabited islands of Oceania and Papua New Guinea.
He was a member of the international team, but only represented Moscow with Peter.
Well, Moscow is not Russia.
And the crossing where?
I'm afraid it's sarcasm.
And behind this game is Batman.
Pretty boy.
read not many lies in such articles in 70 years of life read but when he read that he graduated from the military school of communication kgb sssr everything became in his place another Julian seeds with his jokes
You write like that.
One of the few interesting analysts working for Russia, not for the Anglo-Saxons and Israel.
Make a difference.
The task of the analyst to give precise characteristics of the moment when the analyst works for someone is not the analyst but the salts with acid..................
Where's the lie?
Maybe the New York Times is telling the truth?
I don't read in English in German French I don't read in Italian and what they write I don't know what they write in Russian description of the Bulgakov Don't read this Soviet press but there is no other, then don't read at all
Google Translate is quite decent today.
Everything is quickly translated and understood.
Russia isn't there, or in the corner.
They have their problems above the roof.
So let them not be fooled by their role in world history.)
I agree, the gugol interpreter was very good.
There are more inosmi, but whether Gazprom Media or some other company bought them after this newspaper broke up, I don't know how it is now, I don't read.
Eh, he foolishly refused the offer to go to the KGB military liaison school, and could also write.
Rome Dashkin
That's bullshit!
Compote.
The Complete Idiot's Guide.
Who needs our solar cell?
He is a puppet in the hands of Trump and Uncle Xi.
What has already been proved in the OPEC + negotiations.
When Russia is 85% owned by transnational companies, there is no point in pursuing it.
But the global exercise of population governance had to be conducted before the collapse of the world financial system and the zeroing of everything but the debts of the population.
The virus is a common orubi, and mortality is about an order less than that of influenza.
But we belong to the powerful of this world, and the zombie population (65%) did their job.
And which TNCs are 85% Russian?
This is part of the investor provocation.
Russia also owns shares in many foreign campaigns.
You change words when you rewrite the yellow press of your ideologues.
Mr. Realist, you never thought why in China, in the '70s, as Komsomol truth wrote, the bicycle was a luxury now it was so lifted up and the sssr who prided himself on the Gagarin missiles Kalashnikov assault rifles fell apart and the rf now have nothing all captured those you write and now even the proton missile that was successfully flown at sssr now refused to use because of its accident
Where has China risen?
Their poverty... mice eat!
And cockroaches...
Be lenient to the author of the commentary of 10: 45: since the 1970s he has read and believes only Komsomol Pravda.
I do not believe in the Russian press at all, according to the recommendations of Professor Preobrazhensky from the dog's heart Bulgakov.
Mice and cockroaches often eat not because they have nothing but because they like it!
If you do not have normal food for a week, you will also eat a fly mouse with pangolin.
In China, pangolin is considered a delicacy.
They are treated or worn as ornaments.
And how many centuries have you eaten pangolins?
And why is the virus now?
Maybe centuries!
But there were a lot of people, and the viruses noticed that, and there was a mutation.
Everything in nature is trying to survive, and for the coronavirus, humans have become a huge survival medium.
There 's always been a lot of people in China and 10 years ago and 20
12.21 They have other food.
It's just their choice, their taste, well, they like it.
They have eaten and will eat for life.
You 'll be surprised, but these mice are not only eaten by Chinese.
And this whole version of what 's from the mouse, it' s also written for the lochs.
Well, that's funny.
They all eat, and only one boy got sick and infected them all.
It was reported that there was a leak.
Only one question: was it a leak or...
China has lifted 500 million people out of poverty in 20 years.
Cities, roads built.
There are no trains in Russia, and trains on a magnetic cushion run around the country.
Almost all electronics in the world is Chinese.
Overcome?
The first hit came against Xi Jinping, but he did not get it ready.
According to my information, the PRC scheduled traditional parliamentary sessions on March 3-5, during which Xi Jinping planned to dismiss the current government and undertake a major purge of the ranks of the Chinese elite from the liberals and "Komsomolans" ("Komsomolans" in China refer to party functionaries who rose from the bottom up thanks to Komsomol structures).
The Komsomolsky Party is opposed to the party of "princes" born within the privileged nomenklatura class, Prim.
).
But he didn't have time to do it.
In November 2019, the first cases of COVID-19 were reported in the PRC, and between 20 and 30 January there was a severe outbreak, apparently caused by outside sources.
The disease spread to all regions and provinces.
On 24 February, the National People's Congress was adjourned.
Read more on "BIZNES Online": https: / / www.business-gazeta.ru / article / 464732 Who doesn't like it so much powerful China Decided to drop it through coronavirus
Evidence?
Where?
Which companies?
What share?
What is 85%?
Publications where?
Names from Wikipedia or from wax societies don't count.
Gunvor?
I thought it was for the office, I,,.............
The earth rose up against adversity, against the enemy of the destroyer.
The enemy has risen, the people have cried out to death for ever!
Even the dead came to life again, they came out of the raw graves to help the living in a fierce battle to accept death for the Motherland again!
And who was weak was strong then.
And who was strong became stronger.
And the enemies cried out in shock: "Are the Russians bewitched?
You burn them with fire and they live!
You'll stab them with an arrow, and they'll live!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
You kill them a hundred times and they live!
They live and fight! "
There were rivers of blood red and red, there was the sky of smoke black and black... and there was the earth, beyond the control of any enemy for centuries!
True.
It has been so for ages.
He added, "The Russians are still giving birth."
The Complete Picture.
Another author, whose Americans simultaneously have the insidious villains that created the virus, and the short-sighted backwoods, because they were the ones he hit the most.
The "famous" political scientist would do well to read the news.)) In the Baltic, the NATO battalion is fully infected with this virus.
Battalion is bullshit.
There's an atomic carrier on the hook, the whole crew in quarantine, even the ex-captain is sick.
He was dismissed from his position for cultivating antimony and in general for panic.
Now the Commander of the Navy is retired, for a pension.
And the captain in the infection, he was standing on the bridge all the way.
You will be told by the connoisseurs that this is all played:)
There are now four carriers in the United States that have been taken ill by a team.
In France, an aircraft carrier did not patrol because of a coronavirus.
And the exercises have already been canceled.
So the NATO vaccine bullshit.
Igor Panarin, what is fear?
We need to rally around Putin urgently!
Yes, we need to get together, as Khazanov said in the monologue Conversation with an official.
- I read and follow many different views on this, but my version is that COVID-2019 is of course a biological weapon.
Or, as the media call it, bacteriological or just biological weapons.
Unfortunately, I have little doubt about that.
It has an artificial origin, just like all this information wave that 's been raised around it.
More on "BIZNES Online": https: / / www.business-gazeta.ru / article / 464732 Agree with Panarin The bat version looks stupid and implausible
I think the Chinese bats eat hundreds of years of virus before there was no one who knows exactly what it came from.
If the reality of the hospital was crowded, people were actually dying, then all the social media was crowded with photos and videos of the facts, from the patients themselves and their relatives.
What does not say clearly would be the constraints on the quality of health care, the shortage of medicines, beds, etc.
There are no photos or videos, except for the queue of the fast-liners without numbers and shooting dates.
It'll be all right, don't rush things.
The Cold War didn't end, it just took other forms...
This has long been a secret and an obvious fact.
So there are reasonable notes in his words.
Don't go outside without a mask.
And it keeps a distance of two meters, and we 've got an old tail in the queue that' s got to get close enough so no one can go forward.
It's your old "no one goes ahead" habit of living normally everywhere prevents adequate people from living
There's always a line in a traffic jam, and leaving two meters, there's definitely someone coming in.
There was no mask, no mask... and will there be?...
The Putin-Trump alliance, in my view, shows that London's globalists must be defeated.
I read the article in one breath, I agree with the author.
His biography and education: Igor Panarin (born October 30, 1958) is a Russian political scientist, candidate of psychological sciences, Doctor of Political Sciences, Professor of the Diplomatic Academy of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Russia, a valid member of the Academy of Military Sciences.
Head of the InfoSpetsnaz Association.
He graduated from the Orlov Military School of Communications of the KGB of the USSR (today the Academy of the Russian SFSR) and the Department of Psychology of the Military-Political Academy.
Lenin (with gold medal), allow to talk about the competence of the article.
After the coronavirus and the noise surrounding it in Russia pass, I think Putin will strike a crushing blow at the London team in Russia with the removal of all the conspirators' governors, the denunciation of the KGB and the complete subjugation of Sberbank to the state, the takeover of all the oil and energy companies of the clinton group, and their subordination to Russia.
Glaanoe, to no longer pity anyone, simply used the entire bear clinton team in Russia and appointed young boys without any connection to the world's elite.
No one is going to add the CB, the rest is real.
There is a good article, as Putin tried to do at the beginning of the zero, but his ringing nose clicked.
- Yes, I do.
I remember his statements about the nationalization of the CB, but then the subject was suddenly closed.
Many were encouraged at the time, realizing the importance of this step for the country and the people, but Colonel..................... quickly put in place those that were once mentioned by M. Zadornov in one of his speeches - the so-called reformers who attended the type of economic courses in America supervised by the CIA (in the 1990s), where he met them.
I think that as long as this whole association is free, as long as the so-called word in person (to put it mildly) of Erovtsev will reject laws (see, many of them are counted financially) aimed at the social worker, raising the level and so on, there will be no faith in all these figures.
It would be good to recall the words of Singapore's miracle father Lee Kuan Yew: "I had two ways: to steal and to put friends and relatives on Forbes lists while leaving my people on the bare ground.
The second is to serve its people and to bring the country into the top ten countries in the world.
I chose the second way. "
We have to work for people, raising the level of SALT AND OTHER SERVICES, so we reject the law on...... A 15% tax on offshore funds is a joke or serious?
Because the whole world understands their origins, and with that money, no one is waiting for them.
This step, if carried out, would amount to a feat; everything else, such as the nationalization of strategic directions of the economy and so on, would then become only a "matter of technology."
Bacteriological weapons include bacteria.
Bacteria and viruses are like mammals and insects.
Fuck illiteracy.
Shit, for being illiterate...
If you read Wikipedia...
Biological (bacteriological) weapons are pathogenic micro-organisms or their spores, viruses, bacterial toxins, infecting humans and animals, intended for the mass destruction of enemy personnel and population, farm animals, crops, contamination of food and water sources, and damage to certain types of military equipment and materials.
Biological weapons also include means of delivery of pathogenic micro-organisms and animal vectors.
It is a weapon of mass destruction and is prohibited under the 1925 Geneva Protocol.
09: 25.
Bacteria and viruses are different things, as they say in Odessa.
There is no separate concept of viral weapons, bacteriological weapons are commonly understood as spreading viruses.
Viruses typically act as a means of delivering pathogenic bacteria to the body.
In the last 10 years, we 've experienced both swine and bird flu and measles, but the danger lies not in the virus itself, but in its ability to cause catastrophic rapid development of bacteriological complications, so it' s treated with antibiotics.
Many experts worldwide believe that Kovid19, has in its composition artificially introduced infections of AIDS, malaria, so it was started to be treated in China precisely with these drugs and not without success.
So we 're really dealing with biological or bacteriological weapons of a combined type.
He graduated from the Orlov Military School of Communications of the KGB of the USSR (today the Academy of the Russian SFSR) and the Department of Psychology of the Military-Political Academy.
Lenin (with gold medal).
And that's what it says.
- Yes, I do.
He studied and had access to secrets that we will never have access to.
It may sound like a joke to the unholy, but his version has a right to life.
If these people were so gifted and so knowledgeable, why did they not prevent the collapse of the USSR and shamelessly lose to the CIA?
It's a long story.
This is the latest story!
For Bush and Pindos, the preservation of the USSR as early as 1989 seemed reasonable because of the prevention of the spread of nuclear weapons and the predictability of Gorbachev's behavior.
10.18 mdaaa, so we are now only at the beginning of the journey, after 20 years just as....
Sad to say (
They organized a breakup.
Purpose?
Take and share.
If only the power could listen and hear not only itself!
It is a brand and quality like the Tu-160 in the USSR, and not an economist and lawyer of unknown origin.
That's right, he wrote, and Clinton's tentacles in Russia must be cut off.
Well wait for the interview from the trench of the fighter of the information special forces (see.
Biography and current position).
Direct-fire is a reasonable shot with an ideological machine gun to maximize the impact of a favorite weapon of propaganda from the media.
unknown people have plotted to overthrow the world government by using an artificially created virus.
This is the author 's main point.
But most importantly, they were bent on celebrating the day of victory and reducing the sacredness of the president!!!!!!
Salovyos from skabeyeva and simonyan cry uncomfortably over that they were not the first to think before.
By the way, today is not the first of April, and if anyone has taken the writing seriously, please contact the psychiatrist.
Thank you for this article!
It was really interesting to read!!!
A somewhat forgotten fighter of the ideological front decided to recall himself.
Come on.
It is not forgotten, there is a channel "world politics panarin" there are also subscribers and look at your health.
Great article.
Looking sharp.
I read the comments and wonder if our people have been the victim of propaganda as a restructuring, or if paid anonymous people are monitoring such publications and working actively to raise them.
Maybe both.
There is no one on Russia's resources now.
From admirers of various banned groups to guests from neighbouring countries of the former USSR.
They do not hide their goals and objectives - if only everything would be bad in Russia.
You can see them with an unarmed look.
All the dreams and fantasies about the collapse of Russia are in.
Wicked people.
Yes, as soon as he got to the "successful action of Mishustin on the feeding of combat viruses," he was so eager to read - well and porridge!
Especially about "voting" and Putin!
These people do not even understand "the simplest of global things" - that the state of the City of London and the United Kingdom, with London as its capital, are very different, opposing, and the main forces: of which two, so far: 1.
"Globalists" (some called "Jesuits" or even "Satanists," US Democrats, US Liberals, and most of the world) - indeed, can be said to be "Democrats - Clintons, Liberals, and some of the elites of many countries - especially under control - Italy, Spain, France, and even our first person (though GDP tends to move between" centers of power ").
And in short, their goal is that the interests of global companies take precedence over national-state and "universal human values" over the rights and freedoms of every person and their management by all for the benefit of these global companies and "SWC"!
The "isolationists" - the "Republicans" - the "patriots" - are rather the Queen's headship and the countries she leads, and then Trump, the "Republicans" and some of the ruling elites, who are more likely to be considered patriots of their countries, nations.
It turns out that "Operation Coronavirus" is being carried out by "globalists," with the aim of driving the whole world into one "digital concentration camp" and using viruses to maintain "world order"!
Since most medical organizations are controlled by "Jesuits," most ruling elites (in which the majority of the two groups are still due to an archaic and outdated electoral system), including the Russian Federation, do not even introduce the CARANTIN regime itself, although all mass disinformation media try to convince citizens that this is what needs to be done!
But then the power comes under the control of 1 group officially!
That is why in most countries, including the Russian Federation, "self-isolation" has been invented - the ruling class does not want to lose control and transfer ALL into the hands of 1 group!
And now, from this point of view, one can explain the fantastic, almost 100-fold, difference in official "mortality" from the coronavirus - where the health authorities and those who keep the statistics - to the "globalists," then there - the "terrible horror" - is Italy, Spain (understandably Catholic), France and... the United States!
And Trump tried to cut through, like, "faster we get over - faster immunity," but immediately went on "the rampage of the public," demanding "not to hide the horror of the coronavirus," that is, record all deaths with coronavirus as deaths from coronavirus, even though overall mortality is nowhere on the rise!
Although they started this special operation prematurely - six months ahead of schedule.
Because Trump and the "isolationists" are working tirelessly to effectively destroy the "clinton democrats" and "purge" this entire group of "elites!"
In the face of the "terrible horror of America's first-place finish in infection and death," it is not clear that Trump has begun to review the outcome of September 11, 2001, and that it is possible to start investigations and prosecutions in the coming days for the bombing and bombing of buildings in the WTC.
There is also a less visible but effective war in another direction.
This is one of the outcomes of Vanstein's scandalous condemnation of the rape of Hollywood stars.
After all, it is more important to beat not the Clintons themselves but their sponsors.
(Weinstein).
So this is the third or fourth world war - only it 's not between states, but between ruling elites within almost all states.
Where prisoners - all peoples are "self-isolated" and victims of war - not only from viruses, including coronavirus - from psychotropic war die much more, but they are not even included in the statistics!
Pan, read less to Wolf.
There are other sources.
Shame on you.
You're a stupid man.
What do you think then?
Thank you!
That's about right.
Not so much against Panarin
As far as the goal of the "deep state" game is concerned, it is no more than a blow to the whole world, and of course it has never been.
It is safe to say that such an active use of biological weapons against the whole of humanity is an unprecedented case.
For more information on "BIZNES Online": https: / / www.business-gazeta.ru / article / 464732 There is no reason to remember about the gold milliad and plans to create it I think Panarin should be trusted
And the Brzezinsky plan, by the way, will soon leave 20-30 million people in Russia at this rate to service the pipe.
Russia Must Get Into This Golden Billion
He began his career in the KGB in 1976.
Since 1991, he has worked for FAPSI (Strategic Analysis and Integration of Information Flows of Closed and Open Information, Crisis Information Management, Situational Modelling of Global Processes).
From 1999 to 2003 he worked as head of the analytical department of the Central Election Commission of the Russian Federation.
From 2006 to 2007, he was the spokesperson of the Federal Space Agency (Roscosmos).
In 1993, he defended his PhD thesis in psychology on "Psychological factors of an officer's activity in conditions of innovation."
Doctor of Political Science degree awarded by the Dissertation Council of the Russian Academy of Public Service under the President of the Russian Federation on May 7, 1997, thesis topic - "Information and psychological security of Russia" Pan, I think this person knows much more than you
Knows one thing, says another.
Read KGB gossip books on how to put noodles on your ears, substitute facts, make true facts to impose false conclusions, etc.
And skilfully uses the methods of ensuring the national security of capitalist Russia, organized the functioning of the committee in its present form, giving the necessary result.
I agree with the above-mentioned political scientist.
Everything is clear, everything is the same.
What is it?)
With an understanding of what's happening, dear.
Another sick world conspiracy theory, and you'll see a biography like a healthy man.
When we 're dealing with paranoid people in psychiatry, we see that they' re absolutely calm people, clearly convinced that there 's some kind of behind-the-scenes action that somebody' s interested in.
That is, if paranoia is already formed, it is surprisingly calming.
I 'm not ready to discuss conspiracy ideas, because that' s how you get to the conclusion: let 's stick to conspiracy theory and be calm during the coronavirus period.
More on "BIZNES Online": https: / / www.business-gazeta.ru / article / 464534
Mental illness is contagious if you read a lot of what a mentally ill person said or you spend a lot of time talking to him, you can get sick yourself. So the doctors say, probably that's.................
Do not discuss the identity of the author.
Give your counterarguments to his thoughts, conclusions.
We're not grandmothers on the bench before the entrance.
- Americans weren 't on the moon, it' s movies, Hollywood; - how weren 't there, even a lunar rover in a medium telescope to see; - what?
And give your counterarguments, don't be like the grandmothers at the entrance!
If, a couple of years before the collapse of the Soviet Union, anyone had predicted such an outcome, it would also be considered paranoid.
Funny?
Brad.
I don't know about politics.
I'm not a politician.
And about deceit is a lie, an illiterate one.
There are many viruses in animals, by the way, and they will periodically mutate into humans, as always.
He would have a primary virological education.
10: 16. What is a simple education?
10.16 I think his education is much more serious than yours.
If you follow your logic, all pet lovers would stop keeping them, and the livestock sector would disappear altogether, the evil emanating from humans far exceeds the vagaries in the natural environment.
Who Needs Trump, Xi, and Putin?
In China, the Communist Party will succeed and continue its course.
Putin must defeat the virus and leave nicely, naming a successor.
What nonsense.
He laughed to tears as the Italian patriots wrote him!
Solovyov?
(Russian)
CHEKA agrees with the author in many respects that there are elements of spirituology.
There is no doubt that Putin is hindering globalization.
An independent Russia with a strong leader in Putin's face to globalists across its throat.
But the main conclusion from the current coronavirus situation is that the US (NATO) is much weaker and more vulnerable to China.
HOW China defeated the pandemic quickly, in an organized manner, and how disorganized, disorganized, and confused the US looks, shows that 10-15 years from now, when China has completely overtaken the West technologically and militarily, the chances for the West in general and the US in particular against China are slim.
In other words, China's future world domination is not the best option for Russia either.
I agree with Ch.
We must at all costs preserve the sovereignty of our country, better still, achieve Russian domination.
I agree with Ch.
We must at all costs preserve the sovereignty of our country, yet...
11: 44.
No soldiers have been killed, except for sick American soldiers on aircraft carriers.
In order to preserve sovereignty, the Armed Forces would be useful as a last resort.
But you are a common liar repeating a lie from the history of the Soviet Union and a primitive hater of Russia.
First, hatred is a very dangerous thing for the health of someone who hates, so I try not to give in to that feeling, and second, I try to stay away from that Russian that hates everyone else and seeks a reason to fight.
Your problems are worse than I thought.
You hate even the USSR that won the WOW, but that's half the trouble.
The trouble is, you don't realize it.
I have lived with the Sssr and I live with her offspring, and I can measure everything that has been and is being, so it 's not hatred, it' s just a healthy assessment.
11 / 1
From the point of view of Russia's hater, you have sound thinking, but that has nothing to do with the real facts.
10: 28, where did you see a strong Russia?
In your tears?
In February, after the outbreak of the epidemic in China, our country banned transport and imports of products from China.
What happened to the shops?
All the stalls and shelves in the shops are empty!
Only cucumber tomatoes from Azerbaijan remain, and they cost up to 700-900 roubles per kg!
They did not die of starvation just because the local authorities, spitting on the danger of viral infection, opened the import of products from China!
Russia has nothing of its own today!
Three years ago the last ball bearing factory in Russia closed (went bankrupt)!
The share of domestic medicines is 2%.
You can go on for a long time, but through your pink glasses, everything looks beautiful!
CHEKA The Far East grows soybeans for China, and the sum of these soybeans is delivered by order of magnitude more than the vegetables purchased from China.
Based on your logic, it turns out that China is nothing compared to Russia if it buys so much soy from Russia.
With regard to ball bearing plants, it is enough to get in gugle or yandex and there will be some 20 Russian ball bearing plants...
The share of domestic enterprises in the Russian market reached 37% in 2019, according to a study by the investment company Novus Capital.
12: 19, all these "grown" enterprises work on imported raw materials!
We have all the convolution!
There will be no supplies of raw materials for farming - there will be no medicines.
Moreover, it should not be forgotten that virtually all imported drugs that are "produced" in Russia are ordinary jeans - they do more harm than good, they remove symptoms rather than cure disease.
I have a simple question for you.
Imported drugs only remove symptoms in all countries of the world or only when they are produced in Russia?.
You know, there 's a concept whose car assembly is white yellow and Russian and brand one and quality is different as well as with drugs.
The drug is not a car and you don't have to collect it.
But your answer clearly shows that you are far from being objective and reasonable.
Cheka, I'm becoming your fan!
Good and balanced position on many issues!
11638, about the abandoned shops are in the Far East and in Zabaykala.
Russia is just a big country.
Some words are confused with great.
That's the disease.
There has been a worldwide food rush, but hatred of your country has caught your eyes, and tomatoes and cucumbers in February are a good indicator, which should never be eaten even at the risk of hunger.
I 'm just curious about how your normal life is going, if everything seems to you to have a reason and an interested person.
Although the science of mathematics has repeatedly proved that life is a chain of accidents and coincidences.
But for mathematics, grades don 't, by themselves, so it' s...
God, what a mess on the verge of madness.
At first, there was something comfortable about the case, and the further it went, the more paranoid.
Important interview for the information field of Russia.
This is the antivirus.
Thank you, Panarin.
More like an analyst.
For you especially on the "world politics panarin" button, look at health, sign up, but then don't regret it.
This article is correct.
It is believed that NATO soldiers have already been vaccinated against COVID-19 and other combat viruses.
They have carriers with soldiers infected.
And so now is the time for people and "consultants" and "scientists" with such reasoning.
For every wise man, it is quite simple.
Although, about Johnson, I was pretty sure he was okay, too.........
His "illness" is the same as that of the Skrull in the 2018 re-election of all known characters.
The result is known.
The political scientist is being shunned by those who are less educated, those who are not aware of the political situation, and the adherents of the global system themselves.
Americans led by democrats invented Ebola, imposed sanctions on Iran, unleashed war in Afghanistan, overthrew power in Iraq, killed Gaddafi, and so on.
A lot of examples... in a word, limitless.
... "and ruined the grand opening of the marriage palace.
Then on the ruins of the chapel...
- No, it was before you, in the fourteenth century. "
Stalin was in shock 10 days after the start of the war and did not address the nation until 3 July.
The fact that this virus is of artificial origin - I agree.
The rest is bullshit.
Maybe it's Chinese?
Something hurt and they got on with it fast.
That's why Trump says that the death of 250,000 Americans will be a victory in the fight against the virus, because 2 million Americans could die.))
He had predicted everything, and his predictions never came true.
Most of Panarin's predictions came true.
It's an awkward feeling when game studios or fiction writers predict world events better than a Russian political scientist.
You're crazy again.
If the virus is artificial, why are Americans not vaccinated and sick in such numbers?
In the United States, there are many weapons on hand, and if panic and hysteria reach a boiling point, all these "conspirators" may be caught up.
Americans are not as tolerant as the glorious Russian people.
Proletarians of all countries, unite!
Don 't print political scientists, they have a political explanation for some events.
A viral epidemic is a biological factor, so a political scientist is unable to assess the situation adequately.
As a man with a biological education, I can say that we need to prepare for a long siege by coronavirus.
All predictions of a quick victory over him are mere predictions.
Space Day!!
In one case, he 's right, there' s no movies about VOV, and there 's nothing left until May 9th.
Due to the current state of the disease, it is not considered to be an epidemic.
Last year, certain forces created unrest around the world.
This year, a virus to extend control systems to humans as a prerequisite for human life on earth.
It's a terrible thing when the fate of such a great country is in the hands of one king.
12: 16.
You think primitive... Putin is suspended as Guardiola in football.
It only adjusts and adjusts, and the players of Barcelona win when all is played.
But unfortunately, unlike FC Barcelona, there are many "footballers" playing against Russia in the country, as well as many dumb and lazy "footballers" who believe that in their small salaries because of their laziness and stupidity it is the fault of "Guardiola" - Putin.
13: 04 interesting comparison
I have a neighbor who 's a 78-year-old pensioner who likes that too, he' s been a mechanic in a factory all his life.)
Yeah, that's the kind of talk!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
Why should a person who has worked as a plumber in a factory in a large group be more stupid in sociology than a plankton, sitting in a tiny office or hanging out in a shop?
Another Doctor of Kremlin Sciences...
Trump has announced an emergency regime, allocating $4.6 trillion to direct support for people and businesses.
Our fabulous national leader has hidden behind an illegal regime of self-isolation, governors, penalizes people, gives no money except "friends" to anyone.
And Mishustin is still buying 2.14 trillion from NBF.
Saberbank shares!
12: 31.
All of this money in the United States is used to buy shares and support large businesses.
The Russian government has taken far more equitable measures, maintaining wages and lowering taxes for small and medium-sized businesses.
Trump has declared a natural disaster, it's different, don't defuse!
The whole article, that is, all this OPUS, reminds me of a dish of food, under the name "borsch."
Everything that could and could not be confused was blocked.
And his name-- Brad.
There is only circumstantial evidence that Americans did such a study in 2003. One, let's tell you how Putin "cut down" all the disease laboratories in Russia, left only one Vector in Novosibirsk.
Bill Gates' men did not warn, but with Gates' money they produced a new virus and launched it in Wuhan, symbolically alluding to the actions of the Hunweibins, which led to a dynasty change.
Strangely enough, Bill Gates, personally funding this lab, did not provide all the levels of protection that anticipated the satisfaction of billions of dollars earned on the vaccine.
Victory Day renamed and celebrated as the Day of Sorrow.
Stop talking about weapons.
He wants to keep his ugly mind under the noise..
For my grandparents, for my parents, it was Victory Day.
It is joy with tears in its eyes, it is victory over the strongest enemy.
And as you win our victories, we don 't like them very much, you want to weed them out of our creation, replace them, cheat.
It means either your ancestors were unworthy traitors, or you betrayed your worthy ancestors who won fascism.
None of us will know the truth... but what's happening is obviously unnatural.
I am surprised by the local bystanders))), you are the ones to declare this a joke?
Have you heard of critical thinking, intelligence and good education?
You look like a poet on TV, you look scared.
You're just a regular.
Well, if you think you have critical thinking like that, study different sources on the Internet instead of looking at state channels.
06: 47 They all have very advanced CRITICAL thinking, but they are not familiar with analytical thinking.
This is why all criticism is only against Russia, and everything outside Russia is only white and furry.
All of their analysis comes down to one thing: Russia's richer America needs to acknowledge its superiority and ask to take us under its protectorate.
And trying to figure out why she 's richer and how to do something that we' ve become, we don 't have enough.
We're political experts, and you're just a regular TV guy.
Both of you are sausages.
So the article is true.
12.04.2020 13: 27 What is the truth?
Is Assyria True?
Why are the Greeks joining the Arabs?
The Greek Cypriots made their choice by joining the EU!
By the way, Assyria, Cyprus, (then Greek) DID NOT enter!
What a man's fantasy!
Give your comrade 400 drops of valerian!
Well that there are such shadow forces long known and so.. certainly not Panarin the discoverer of this fact... and forces these powerful and large... here some laugh at the type of mole fantasies of the author... but I laugh at them too... naive or pretend naive!
Otto. Excellent article, author of rights - owes American Kosovo films on TV.
You are sometimes surprised at whose money you are running your business, including federal canals!
And V.V. needs to act bolder, because he has the strong support of the people and all reasonable people throughout the former post-Soviet space.
It may be time for V.V. to organize large-scale construction projects like the Belomor Canal, and we will gladly support this good enterprise.
And finally, get us all out of all kinds of liberal media and their hobbyists, who only make a mess, into unbridled young heads.
And for the dusters, prepare warm linen packages, they will be useful to you very soon.
The White Sea Canal was built by rabbits.
12.04.2020 14: 51 Unhealthy heads are NOT only for young!
I didn't finish...
However, when the age is set for free time, it is possible to do so.
The only thing about Marcian is that he didn't see anything in the article.
I have just received reliable information from three credible sources operating in the highest echelons of power, both in Russia and beyond, that all this is 99% nonsense.
Chamber No. 6
There is also a monument to Alexander II in Helsinki, for example (not the only one).
Nicholas II.
I figured that out a long time ago, and most of us are very trusting.
Thank you, BO, for giving interviews to people from fundamentally different perspectives.
In this interview I agree most with two points: 1.
If it were Medvedev now, it would not be a silent horror like now, but a real nightmare 2.
The filling up of the TV channels is really very interesting (especially about the state to talk about).
I've already got the news on coronavirus myself, I'm trying to find and read something not related to it, so there's almost nothing.
So the last week, I 'm just reading books and not more than 30 minutes a day on ABC.
I would like, after all this talk with the Crown, 19 to really pay attention to the medical profession and to medicine in general.
Filing for the virus is one thing, you have to raise your wages at least twice that.
What I like about Business Online is the plurality of opinions!
In one article, the colonel develops a conspiracy theory; in the next article, a professor of psychiatry diagnoses paranoia to conspiracy theorists.)
The best political scientist of all time and peoples.
The land has not been damaged by Russian talent!
In general, everything he predicted did not come true.
Predictions are difficult to build, especially if they are about the future.
16: 54).
On the fingers: projections are always about the future.
There is no such phrase: a prediction of the past / present.
It would be useful to have an answer to one question: if biological weapons have been used against humanity, as the author claims (which is not impossible), why is the mortality rate in Italy, in one of the most affected States, this year lower than in the past, as the author claims?
No one's going to tell us exactly whether it's a virus or not.
Whether or not there have been inserts in it.
Even virologists can 't answer, they don' t reject these views.
It is clear that both China and the United States have experimented with coronaviruses, as scientific publications have shown.
And about conspiracies and deep state, Masonic governance, look at the performance of the Freemason Louise Chikkon at the Eurovision Song Contest 2019, in Israel.
It 's full of symbolism and predicted 100 percent what' s going on.
Without optimization, it's not like not looking!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
Congratulations to all the optimists with the victory, we now have everything....
Russia is being turned into a cheap commodity colony for the West, and we are being made servants for our billionaires from Forbes and others.
Taif has spent more than 25 years putting billions in his pocket, in a difficult time could help his robbed people.
If everything were as predictable as in the article, such a version would have been solved even earlier. And so much in the World of the forces fighting for existence.
This fits in well with the current situation and the future.
One who knows and understands the politicians on our side, as in the past, present and future.
We'd rather have them.
FSB analysts are always scared.
Fear must be convincingly plausible.
This time it's not convincing.
Will Margaret Simonyan be removed from RT?
He stopped reading this nonsense after saying that we closed the border with China in time and allowed no contamination from there.
And how many infections were there from China?
Ocha Moscow, to Moscow brought from Europe
A complete lie, except the fact that the virus originated and spread
Read the advice again, think about it.
If there are no fantasers, it's not a political scientist, it's a fantaser.
+ for BW article and author.
Oh, thank you.
Thank you BO Makes you think
You 're surprised to see people who are self-confident in their meagre cognitive abilities, in their personal lack of truthful information, stigmatize themselves for positions that annoy them.
:) But to be surprised, that 's how the brain works.
Bravo, Panarin!
Judging by the comments, they got hit.
You are read and loved.
All your predictions are true.
Russia is a great country and will prosper!
God feeds us.
The United States and the dollar will collapse by 2022.
from 20.06-20-07 and from 20.10-20.11 2020 will be the most significant events!
13.04.2020 00: 22 And if NOT?
What will you do then?
Why the three?
Why are the leaders of Spain, Italy, Iran not on the list, and that is where they are most likely to attack this virus.
$6 trillion in printing.
2 for distribution to its population as a support measure and 4 for the purchase of cheaper PVC throughout the world.
Trump on horseback, that's it.
This whole ride is actually linked to changing the existing structures of governments throughout the world system by a third alien force to inhabit the earth with its hybrids and xenomorphs disguised as human races.
The war in Ukraine is in fact unleashed not simply in the idea of confronting Russia with all its consequences, but in the transformation of the world and the subjugation of another race of species to our planet with quiet ways of removing the indigenous peoples as the conquistadors once destroyed the Amerindians in America.
13.04.2020 05: 02 What Indians are they?
Quechua (Quechua: Qhichwa runa) is an indigenous people living in South America (Peru, Bolivia, Ecuador, Argentina, Colombia, Chile) who are the heirs of the cultural tradition of the Inca state of Tawantinsuyu.
Population: 19.6 million - 25.2 million Population: Peru - 13,887,073 Population: Ecuador - 6,018,691 Population: 3,821,820 Population: Argentina - 1,469,830 Population: 39,1,000 Population: 39,000 Population: 39,000 Population: 13,887,073 Population: 13,887,073 Population: 13,887,073 Population: 13,887,073 Population: 13,818,691 Population: 35,821,820 Population: 13,
Chile - 13,667 (2012 census) Aymaranakaya (Spanish pronunciation:) is an Indian people in the Andes, in western South America.
Population: 3,802,729.
Bolivia - 2.25 million Peru - 1.46 million Chile - 52.2 thousand
Argentina: 40,529 GUARANTEES are a group of indigenous peoples in South America who speak Guaran languages.
It is native to Paraguay, where Guarani is the official language, and to Brazil, Argentina, and Bolivia.
The Guarani population is estimated to be around 257,000, with the majority of Paraguayan mestizos (up to 4 million) being considered Guarani.
Self-titled.
Mexico is home to an indigenous people in Central Mexico.
The modern Nahua, also known as the Aztecs, are a group of at least 6 million people of Indian descent in Central America (Yucatn Peninsula, Mexico), Guatemala, Honduras, and Belize.
This interview should be read by most of Russia's eligible people, but our liberals should not be allowed to attend.
Liberals will miss much of what was said in this interview.
13.04.2020 07: 59 ADEQUATE people will read and breathe...
I agree with every word of Panarin.
Especially since the coronavirus was initiated by the CIA and MI-6 in order to counteract the vote on changes in the Constitution of Russia and the celebration of Victory Day.
I wish Putin had more supporters and we could stand.
13.04.2020 09: 16 If you are sarcastic, it is something NOT sarcastic!
I don't understand.
So, who let the media wage an information war on our TV?
What do they want?
To wreak havoc in the country?
The government has managed to put a multimillion-dollar country at home, and the media cannot shut their mouths!
I believe that evil-doers will be punished from above!
Vaccinations under the auspices of B.
Gates in Italy prepared a higher level of coronavirus damage, a binary effect.
Unfortunately, most commentators lack a basic culture.
If you don't respect someone, why read it?
Thanks for the interview.
Let's think quietly, it's not harmful to think!
My husband immediately said that when they work on a new virus, they immediately develop an antidote.
So the bottom line is...
This is what we need to turn out to be normal ORVs as bacteriological weapons.
Mr. Political Scientist, you're sick.
If you ask for data from last year on mortality from CVD, it 's the same picture.
Very good and correct analysis!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
This "well-known political scientist" Panarin, turned to conspiracy theory, had already predicted a seven-to-eight-part breakup of the US, which would have occurred in "zero" years.
By the way, the Americans themselves, despite this, did not deny him a visa, and he freely promoted the theory at American universities.
"To nationalize the FRS..." There is nothing in the amendments to the Constitution of the paragraph on the nationalization of the RF CB.
The people, judging by the comments on the Internet, are very interested in the question: how so?
And behind him is another: on whose side is the guarantor himself?
At the top, many, having seen at least the paragraph on the nationalization of CBs in the papers, would probably have treated everyone else with understanding.
And without that comes the needle into the soap to change: what with it under the needle, what without it..............
The only way to save Russia is to lift the moratorium on the death penalty for traitors to the Motherland!
They are all on the surface and call themselves "liberals."
Such a blatant display of Russophobia and malice by these "figures" will not remind us of our history.
This is what games with "democracy," impunity and the omnipotence of Russia's enemies lead to, and this is when you remember STALINA!
14.04.2020 08: 58 YOUR Stalin has buried his own daughter!
14.04.2020 08: 58 and are you sure you wouldn't have gotten caught up in Stalin?
At least because you knock on the computer and it's invented on Zapade?
On it and on the mobile (there is also an invention), can you contact the bridegroom at any time?
Lavrentia Pavlovich, oh as if I didn't like it!
14.04.2020 08: 58 Stalin's Prosecutor - remember?
His name is Vishinsky!
Please consider Stalin's support for Vyshinsky's activities!?
Vyshinsky, being a Menshevik and an investigator by profession, signed a warrant for the arrest of Lenin in the summer of 1917!
And Stalin knew about this.
Admit it, it's more than a WEEK basis for execution in 1937!
But there was nothing!
Hundreds of thousands of innocent people were killed and the real one remained unpunished!!!
Well, what about the volume?
You know, it seems to me that this coronavirus was not created at all, just like that. The global crisis will lead to a new type of rule.
Well, for someone, "the plaster is removed, everything's gone," but I believe we'll make it.
One thing is clear: the problem in the face of unknown contagion shows who is who.
Mascarad is coming to an end...............
Cally.
This man didn't lose any shore, he didn't have any.
According to his biography, he only offered and offered for his life.
But he didn't do anything.
Do not agree - criticize, criticize - propose, propose - do, do - answer!
Sergei Pavlovich Korolev.
Already, as scientists have not said!
That this virus is NOT of the DISEASED origin.
But no, there was again a charlatan political scientist with his control.
ADDRESS, PAROLY, GO AHEAD!
14.04.2020 20: 16 Just this virus, in line PERVUU, is infecting SIDS!
And long before your real appearance!
Panarin has always been distinguished by delusional ideas, and this time he uses the same cliche of the world conspiracy - the primality of consciousness is amazing, and the main thing is that everything is logical in the myth of this "thinker," everything is connected even incomparable: -))..............
Thank you, I got the answers to all the questions that have been bothering me for so long in this stupid isolation and now I look at everything from the other side and understand everything!
Good times!
The Panarin has a strong geopolitical accent.
Everything else is secondary.
Panarin is a genius, as if not to read his thoughts.