The new coronavirus was engineered by American biologists?
Hello!
The categorization system of the Living Journal considered that your record could be categorized as: Coronavirus, Medicine.
If you think the system is wrong, write about it in response to this comment.
Your feedback will help make the system more accurate.
Frank, JW team.
User sell _ off referred to your record in his record "New coronavirus was artificially invented by American biologists?"
in the context of: [...] have the courage to do so?
I think the answer is obvious.
https: / / eduard-456.livejournal.com / 942407.html [...]
There is a second part to this story.
Chinese.
It was a group fool, and the Americans tried to jump off that train.
And the global scientific promise four years ago went through this history and did not insist on burning the results.
http: / / lleo.me / daily / 2020 / 03 / 21? fbclid = IwAR0myegDuNFSL6gwS8oyXtMoRZEEMe4ZuGK5Ive1SpKE13H1MvfNJbyRTz8
The bastards have released a terrible infection.
They would still be experimenting with strains of black smallpox in humans and monkeys.
To destroy 50-60% of the population.
Maybe not.
Here is a person who determines that he checked htps: / / skinquisitor.livejournal.com / 173753.html
An alternative to voting and boycotting lotteries is "For the fifth term through Glaziev's plan!"
The Evolutionary March supports the zeroing of the Putin timeline as a lesser evil compared to other transit options (the ideal is the Belarusian option).
In doing so, EV - for minimizing the risks of Putistreyki through Glazyev's plan: https: / / evolution-march.livejournal.com / 1909042.html
But EM does not vote 22.04.20 - indifferent ignores, rather than protests boycotts: https: / / evolution-march.livejournal.com / 1908761.html Just like in elections - for the same reason of not participating in lotteries: https: / / evolution-march.livejournal.com / 1850641.html And this will not hurt Putin in any way - he will be drawn as many appearances as he needs.
And that there will be maidan protests - that is what they will be anyway, even after fair elections.
It is not fair elections that Maydons need, but a cause for trouble whether they participate in elections or boycott them: https: / / evolution-march.livejournal.com / 1838414.html
He distanced himself from protests about unfair voting (boycotts, etc.) and even opposed them on the principle "Unfair elections are better than fair distractions": https: / / evolution-march.livejournal.com / 654434.html That is - The Golden Middle between Putin's Holodomor and anti-Putin.
True Third Force: https: / / evolution-march.livejournal.com / 1267838.html
Instead of voting, EV aims at street activism under the slogan "For the fifth term through Glaziev's plan!"
That is, kicking, because the street, unlike the ballot box, is a much more honest expression of the will of citizens.
And not just in support of a fifth term, but by forcing Putin to change his economic course.
This is the only way to raise the standard of living of the population and thereby reduce the protest mood - by depriving Maidan of mass and keeping Putin from losing power and The Hague, and the country from being distracted: https: / / evolution-march.livejournal.com / 1906533.html
That is, really for Putin and for Russia in this situation, once again only EM - as in all other cases: https: / / evolution-march.livejournal.com / 1786642.html The guards who call the bull to vote for a zero-date and do not force Putin into Glazyev's plan - actually care about both Putin and the country.
They flatter Putin and therefore join the ranks of anti-Putin: https: / / evolution-march.livejournal.com / 1739813.html
6. Is it really necessary to ignore voting - why not help Putin not only on the street, but also at polling stations?
The fact is that EV is the only political force that has the chance to be honest today, which is more important than ever in the information age (lying today is almost impossible for purely technical reasons): https: / / evolution-march.livejourn.com / 179523html Wrath and confusing supporters, and anti-Putin opponents of the election: https: / evolution-march.livejourn.com / 186074.html And if EV participates in the voting lothron, it will forever hide the dishonesty, even if confusing.
What confidence, then, can he have?
So there will be no mass - and without it, Putin will not be forced to change course.
Even more so, he will lose confidence in EV as his true defenders and will hardly go for the dubious project - "Solitary Sollows, who will believe you?."
If they fail to do so, they will lose their moral immunity: "The unicorns are the losers."
So honesty for EM is not "lyrics," but rational calculation, as in everything he does: https: / / evolution-march.livejournal.com / 186563.html
Fatigue
Elections!
Election! Election!!
Let's make a choice!
How can you turn us in?
The honest, the dishonest, the rabbis, the protestors, even if there's a demonstration, even a boycott, even if the people just sleep -
All is good for the enemies with their wily morsel, to freeze and, to lure them into the darkness,........
To end the election turned into a mirage: To wipe Russia out - That's what the lohotron salt...
Oh, how fun to piss your brains in a jam - Tarybara-eaters!
Fishermen!
The road is a long way from the road, and the road is a long way from the road.
The virus is artificial?
Da Biaujie?
No deliberate dissemination.
No Random: yes
It 's simple - there can' t be flu vaccines...
Absolutely not!
The virus mutates at a rate of two to three weeks.
A new strain emerges, leaving any vaccine far behind.
Chinese coronavirus differs from Iranian and Italian coronavirus, while Iranian coronavirus differs from Italian coronavirus.
This is how the Pindos stepped on their pillboxes, because to think there is no one - Chinese and Hindus until they are allowed to rule!
Coronado
Well done, coronavirus!
How skillfully you lit up the heathful worm - like a Russian worm!
It's like - so fast, so fast, so fast - Right ready under "Icarus" to go for Russian!!!!
But... as the virus in Russia started to rage there and there - the moment was filled with hysteria, the joyous handle trembled -
The more bitter the people are, the more angry he is at Putin, the sooner he curses the monster and creeps everything!
The only way out is to throw the joy of "Russian native" into the trap - Only if the barrier breaks down, that on their way to power...
Out?
Maybe I just can't.
No, they kill enemies...
How happy I am, seeing their shooting ditch!!!
Stop.
They're not people!
These viruses are for us - so that we get involved in fornication, Vlasovsky gets ecstasy...
Only the vaccine with the "E" and "M" codes will help!
But not without quarantine - five points for all of them!
The Evolution March as a Moral and Political Quarantine for Maidanovirus: htps: / / evolution-march.livejourn.com / 1912292.html
Coronavirus in the light of the eschatology of the Evolutionary March, Nature-Christianity and Development
The Coronavirus, whether natural or artificial, is clearly being used for globalized purposes: (a) Rights and freedoms are being eroded.
(b) Human control is strengthened.
(c) In the test mode, there is coercion to cashless calculations - under the pretext of "infected" banknotes and coins.
etc.
Yes, quarantine closures are outwardly contrary to globalization, but they are unprincipled, because within countries, certain regions are being closed.
The main thing is that it is easier for people under control to be dragged into a globalist concentration camp - and they are taught to control not only with the coronavirus, but also under the fear of terrorism, climate disasters, etc.
All the more so that, after the pandemic, borders will open again.
The rejection of money is a direct reference to the Revelation of John the Evangelist, which foretells the cannibalism of humans.
In addition, there are other signs of "recent times" approaching: (a) Never before has humanity had such an impact on climate and ecology - leading them to a threatening state (apocalyptic droughts, floods, GMOs, increased number of freaks, etc.).
(b) Never before has humanity been able to create such a powerful biological weapon as today (the apocalyptic nightmare).
(c) Never before has humanity moved so far away from traditional values - family, culture, patriotism, etc. (apocalyptic depravity).
(g) Never before has humanity known such transparent boundaries - the world has become unintelligible (the apocalyptic dictatorship of the Beast over all countries).
(d) Never before has humanity been so unified - the eternal differences between countries are fading under the influence of Western cults of consumption, entertainment, tolerance, etc. (apocalyptic apathy, mindlessness, statelessness, etc.)
Globalization is, in principle, inevitable and even necessary - a question only of whether it is transnational / international, as it is now, or a national basis, that is, based on national States.
The United Nations is needed precisely as the United Nations, and the transnational "UN" will be called otherwise - for example, the Organization of United Humanity.
Russia is already, in fact, becoming a leader of anti-globalization resistance, but it needs strong geopolitical influence to do so.
And it comes from two main factors - economic and spiritual.
For economic - we need an Evolutionary March based on the world view of Development: https: / / evolution-march.livejournal.com / 15959.html For spiritual - directly Development: https: / / natur-christ.livejournal.com / 59248.html Not to mention that first of all Russia needs to be saved from trouble - and here too we need an Evolutionary March: http: / / evolution-march.livejournal.com / 1562500.html
The symbol of transnational globalism is the "Three Six Beast" - a symbol of the same chip that coronavirus and other factors work on.
But the six have a different meaning, because the number "6" is the initial development of the Development spiral, and the six-letter "J" is the symbol of the principle of least action (the principle of optimality-harmony of Development): https: / evolution-march.livejourn.com / 1891932.html And according to the Development God-Creator is development, that is, the will to power-strengthen: https: / / natur-christ.livejourn.com / 11518.html - From here the three Divine Six, opposing the three satanic Six: https: / natur-christ.livejourn.com / 65865.html Why are the three antiChristian symbols according to the national Apocalypse Six?
Because it will be necessary for transnationals to pervert the meaning of the Divine Three Six as a symbol of the Second Coming of Christ, which requires a fundamental renewal of Christianity in the form of Nativity-Christianity: https: / / natur-christ.livejournal.com / In this way the transplants reject the Nativity-Alternatives to the Kingdom of the Beast of the Healthy Forces - on the principle of "Turn the medicine into shit."
By the way, the six-pointed "Star of David" actually became a Jewish symbol only in the 19th century, while in other cultures, including the Russian (symbol of Roda and Perun) - it was from the ages: https: / / natur-christ.livejournal.com / 40408.html
End: https: / / evolution-march.livejournal.com / 1912592.html
Limonov's death as a call for EM-rationalization of the Russian mind
The overwhelming majority reacted to Limonov's death with sympathy and even with respect and admiration for him.
Only a few spoke negatively of him, but as far as I know, no one but me spoke of the main outcome of his life - work on the road, fatal to present-day Russia (his talents were an aggravating circumstance).
and that Limonov's death at the threshold of global turmoil symbolically points to the need to abandon adventurism in favour of responsibility: https: / / evolution-march.livejournal.com / 1911253.html
This proves once again the superficiality of Russian thinking, about which the academician Pavlov also wrote, and I named the main cause of Russian troubles, including the rumour: https: / / evolution-march.livejournal.com / 1588403.html The Russian top view is based on Vera Zasulich syndrome - admiration of the outside side of rebellion when not thinking about its consequences (in the example of Kvackov): https: / / evolution-march.livejournal.com / 181595.html
Other examples of Russian supremacy: a) With regard to Maidan-2014 - only I then called for Yanukovych to be saved from the loss of power: https: / / evolution-march.livejourn.com / 128693.html b) With regard to the Minsk Accord - in the name of short-term benefits have received the minus of delayed action for years to come: https: / / evolution-march.livejourn.com / 1351086.html c) With regard to Putin - some are holuyings before him, others want to curse him, but all others want to be unwilling to play on Putin's agenda The Hague: / / / evolution-march.livehtourn.com / 173983.html)
Academician Pavlov did not know the reasons for Russian superiority, although they are obvious: a) The difficult climate (risky farming, etc.) caused the appearance of Russian Avossos.
(b) Large territory - new lands could be avoided.
(c) Orthodoxy - its orthodoxy gave "too smart and curious" a much stronger grip than in other countries.
Today, all these reasons are no longer relevant - there is no such dependence on climate and geography.
It also lost its former power - its "revival," mainly of a casual nature.
On the other hand, never before has Russia and all of humanity been on the threshold of such serious challenges as today (coronavirus only emphasized this): https: / / evolution-march.livejourn.com / 1912592.html That is - the right moment for the treatment of the Russian mind from the top view.
Under the threat of death, Russia is capable of many things, and therefore of rationalizing its thinking ("Mind of pain"): https: / / evolution-march.livejournal.com / 1435244.html
The same academic Pavlov pointed to the possibility of overcoming Russian infantility: https: / / evolution-march.livejournal.com / 1588947.html The best tool is the Evolutionary March, which links this epochal task to economic change as the most pressing issue, vital to the population.
As the course changes, it will be possible to further rationalize - up to the level of spiritual values: https: / / evolution-march.livejournal.com / 1811845.html
Roots of Russian Trouble
Academician Pavlov: "A Russian man, I don't know why, does not seek to understand what he sees.
He does not ask questions in order to master a subject which the alien will never allow... And while the Russian succumbs, not really understanding, the alien is necessarily questioned to the root of the matter... "
The upper hand is worse than the lower hand.
You know, sluts sometimes have those
End: https: / / evolution-march.livejournal.com / 1913003.html