The Chinese sensationalized the source of the coronavirus
Source: Social networks
The theory on which Chinese waiters were still "ironically" - the coronavirus went roaring among the people, and it was most likely passed on to them from the wild animals they traded in the ear market.
The same Gao Fu claimed in January: COVID-19 was found there in "human merchandise."
Gao Fu now stated that there was no animal source of contamination in the Wuhan market.
This was confirmed by studies of products sold on the market.
"The market itself fell victim to infection," said a Chinese official.
Most likely, Chinese officials tied the American line to the wall.
As we know, the wildlife market at the epicentre of the epidemic closed on 1 January.
By mid-April, thousands of shops had been reopened.
Scientists from Harvard, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and the University of British Columbia then examined four samples from the seafood market and found that the coronavirus traces were 99.9% identical to the one taken from the patient in Wuhan.
That is, it proves that coronavirus has brought infected visitors or vendors to the market, not animals at all.
But where people actually got infected is not clear.
Biologists with Chinese names, Alina Chan and Shing Zhang, were involved in the study, and their scientific histories show that they are very closely related to the United States.
"Publicly available genetic data do not indicate inter-species transmission of the virus on the market," both claim.
Their line was continued by Colin Carlson, a zoologist from Georgetown University.
He suggested that there was a super-distributor in the market, an infected person who infected dozens of others.
Here is a link to the theory that COVID-19 was created artificially and "crept" from an ear laboratory located near the market - a theory that the US authorities suspect the Chinese.
By the way, citizen Shi Zhenli, who was the first to unwittingly quickly identify a new coronavirus and for many years has been collecting samples from bats in the ear lab, as well as "acclimating" their coronaviruses to the human body, did so in partnership with Americans and as part of a US-initiated program generously sponsored by Bill Gates.
So the question is, who is to blame?
If you have a great conspiracy desire, you can also turn to America itself.
Now, the Chinese are not letting anyone into their Ochanian virology lab, except that COVID-19 does not look like the samples they were working with before it appeared.
However, Shi Zhenli, who had been missing from the radar for a couple of months and had already been read by many as dead, suddenly appeared on Chinese television the other day and reported on new experiments.
The great geopolitical game continues.
Coronavirus artificially created ": photo of the work of the institute in Wuhan" src = "https: / / statc.mk.ru / upload / entities / 2020 / 05 / 06 / 17 / photoreportsmages / detailPicture / a6 / b5 / 8f / d8 / 6829386 _ 1790708.jpg" >