The new theory of coronavirus - it always existed, but was in a "dormant" state.
WHO is already testing this.
The British scientist refers to statements by Spanish scientists who found traces of coronavirus in a sewage sample from March 2019.
The most prevalent version of the SARS-Cov-2 coronavirus is that it came from China (from a market or laboratory in Wuhan).
But this is increasingly being questioned, and now a new theory has emerged that coronavirus did not occur suddenly, but had existed for a very long time.
Tom Jefferson of the Oxford University Center for Evidence Medicine told the British newspaper The Telegraph that scientists are seriously considering the hypothesis that coronavirus was already in Europe a few months before cases began to be reported in China.
This version suggests that SARS-Cov-2 existed all over the world in a hidden form, "waiting" for conditions suitable for its spread.
Jefferson recalls that every day scientists discover more and more evidence of this theory.
For example, Spanish virologists recently announced that they found traces of coronavirus in a wastewater sample taken in March 2019 - at least nine months before the virus was discovered in China.
In addition, traces of coronavirus were found in Italy and Brazil in November and December last year, and the first case in the Falkland Islands was reported in early February.
Thus, according to Jefferson, the virus was already everywhere, but in "dormant" form.
And when environmental conditions allowed it, it intensified and began to spread.
As another example, he recalled the history of the Spanish era, when 30 per cent of the population in Western Samoa died of influenza, but the island had no contact with the outside world.
Hence, one version of the origin of viruses is that they always exist, but are "activated" after certain changes in the external conditions.
The World Health Organization considered that this version deserved attention and careful consideration.
WHO has already set up a large team to work with Chinese scientists to analyse the origin of the virus.
The study of old specimens is ongoing, but it will take time.
As soon as there is a result, WHO will announce it immediately, the representative of the organization in Russia, Melita Vuinovich, assured.