The first case of coronavirus was reported in November - the media.
The first case of Covid-19 coronavirus infection was probably recorded as early as 17 November.
This is reported by the South China Morning Post with reference to Chinese government documents.
According to the publication, scientists are trying to map the spread of the disease.
In particular, it should be noted when it was first discovered.
We recall that the epidemic in the capital of the Chinese province of Hubei Wuhan was recorded in late December.
"Understanding how the disease spreads and determining how undocumented cases have contributed to its transmission will significantly improve understanding of the magnitude of the threat," says the publication.
- According to government data seen by Post, a 55-year-old man from Hubei Province may have been the first person to capture Covid-19 on November 17. "
Since then, according to journalists, between one and five new cases have been recorded daily.
By December 15, the total number of infections was 27.
The first two-digit daily increase was reportedly recorded on 17 December.
By 20 December, the total number of confirmed cases had reached 60.
On 27 December, a doctor at a hospital in Hubei Province informed the Chinese health authorities that the disease was caused by a new coronavirus.
By that time, the Covid-19 had captured more than 180 people.
At that time, however, doctors may not have had this data.
By the end of 2019, the number of confirmed coronavirus cases had increased to 266.
On 1 January, the figure reached 381.
Scientists are now seeking to identify a so-called "zero patient" who could help them trace the source of the coronavirus.
We recall that the infection is believed to have passed to humans from a wild animal, possibly a flying mouse.
As of the morning of March 13, more than 131,000 people worldwide had contracted coronavirus.
4,948 patients died from the infection.
However, more than 69,800 people were affected.
Remember, the outbreak of coronavirus started with the seafood and animal market in the Chinese city of Wuhan.
It causes symptoms similar to a cold, but quickly affects the lungs and other organs.
The pathogen belongs to a large family of coronaviruses.
The disease has already spread to dozens of countries.
The World Health Organization has officially named the new deadly coronavirus from China COVID-19.
In China, it was formerly called NCP (Novel Coronavirus Pneumonia), meaning pneumonia caused by a new type of coronavirus.
The first vaccine for this type of coronavirus will be available within a year and a half.
Looks like the source of the coronavirus outbreak is an animal.
At the same time, it is known that the virus can also be transmitted from human to human via air-droplet.
It is suspected that the disease can be transmitted even during the incubation period, when the bearer of the disease is unaware that he is infected.
In Ukraine, on 3 March, Deputy Minister of Health Viktor Lyashko said that the first case of COVID-19 infection had been recorded in Chernovtsi.
The infection was found in a man who had returned from Italy.
Basic recommendations to avoid coronavirus infection:
Avoid contact with animals;
Not raw or poorly processed meat;
Avoid contact with people with signs of disease;
Wash your hands regularly and thoroughly.
For more information on what is known about the mysterious disorder, how it arose and why it causes concern to the medical community, please read TSN.u.