Will garlic from the coronavirus help?
Food market in Belgrade, Serbia
Moscow, 20 Mar - RIA News.
"Miraculous" folk remedies against coronavirus, whose recipes are disseminated on social media, are a myth, experts claim.
RIA Novosti found out what the doctors' advice might actually lead to.
They are particularly popular in the garlic anti-virus history network.
It is a perennial herb that is offered for use in raw and boiled water, as well as in the form of tap water - a method invented by the "old Chinese doctor."
The World Health Organization (WHO) has even devoted a special section to garlic on its "Disseminating Myths" page.
It states: "Garlic is a healthy food that may have some antimicrobial properties.
However, there is currently no evidence that the use of this product protects against SARS-CoV-2. "
A review of alternative treatments by the National Institute of Health (NCCIH) Center for Complementary and Integral Health (NCCIH) cited work claiming garlic can prevent and treat colds and drowsiness, stating: "Clinical data are insufficient, further research is needed."
If the means is popular, it does not mean at all that it is verified and its action proved.
The cocoon from COVID-19 will not help at all, "explains Sergey Netesov, professor, corresponding member of the Russian Academy of Sciences, head of the Laboratory of Biotechnology and Virology of Novosibirsk State University and the Laboratory of Molecular Biology of RNA viruses FGUN GNC Virology and Biotechnology" Vector. "
"Although not, garlic has a protective property," the scientist jokes.
If they are attacked by them, people will be terrified of the smell, and you will not be bullied. "
This infection does not select people with strong or weak immunity.
There are other mechanisms working here, "says the associate professor of the Department of Infectious Diseases in Children of the PFR RNIMU named N.
I. Pirogova, PhD, infectionist Ivan Konovalov. - For example, for swine flu, deaths caused by too strong an immune response are described.
Therefore, there is no point in talking about increasing immunity with any particular exotic products.
A balanced, varied diet - vegetables, fruits, meat products, less fat, more salads, and no alcohol is important. "
In some situations garlic is simply dangerous because it increases the risk of bleeding in those taking blood thinners and reduces the effectiveness of some drugs.
There can be no blanket recommendations.
A person with a raw garlic can cause gastritis or even stomach ulcers, "Konovalov warns.