WHO report: coronavirus is unlikely to have been created in the laboratory.
It was transmitted by bats.
Bats (and even pangolins) are now considered the most likely primary carriers of the new coronavirus.
WHO experts decided that they were probably the ones that caused the virus to reach people not directly, but through an animal.
The fact that the pandemic began with a leak from a laboratory in Wuhan seems highly unlikely, and people probably did pick up coronavirus from animals - a joint WHO and China expert team came to this conclusion.
Skeptics suspect that Chinese authorities have influenced the course and results of the study.
A joint team report released on Tuesday called leakage from the Uhan Institute of Virology's laboratories the most unlikely of the four main versions of the origin of the coronavirus, which has already killed 2.8 million people worldwide.
The most likely version was thought by scientists to be the transfer to humans from an animal - the original carrier (a flying mouse, a pangolin, or someone else) through an animal-mediator.
Discussions about the study began on 9 February, when the group spoke at a press conference in Wuhan and presented the preliminary findings of a four-week visit to China.
In the final text of the report, which was officially released on Tuesday but had already been published in the press the previous day, these conclusions remained largely unchanged.
However, the head of the WHO said as early as February that no version of the virus's origin has yet been definitively identified by scientists; the task of the international team was not to determine exactly the source of the new coronavirus - such research has been going on for years.
The joint group included 17 scientists from around the world gathered by WHO and 17 of their Chinese colleagues.
The Chinese provided the raw data, while foreigners analysed the data and visited laboratories and interviewed people in Wuhan.
The most likely is the transfer from the original animal to the human via an animal intermediary.
Possible - direct transmission from the source medium to the human
Possible - package delivery of frozen or chilled food
Very unlikely - leakage from the lab
Scientists have not been able to determine the exact role of the world-famous wholesale market for seafood in Wuhan, where the first outbreak of a new disease was recorded in late 2019.
Experts, they said, simply lack the data to understand whether the transfer of coronavirus from an animal to an animal occurred in this market, or whether it just became a hotspot where a lot of people were always suffering, but the virus was brought in from somewhere else.
The Trump administration and many others have argued that a new coronavirus could "escape" from this laboratory of the Ochny Institute of Virology.
WHO mission found no evidence of this.
Many scholars from different countries questioned the validity of this version rating as early as February, when it was first presented to the public.
In their view, it reflects the interests of the Chinese authorities.
The scientific journal Nature wrote then, referring, for example, to immunologist Nikolai Petrovsky of the Australian University Flinders, that the animal version of SARS-CoV-2 is still generally accepted in the world, and in this respect nothing fundamentally new was found by the WHO and China joint group, but the presence in the ranking of the version of contamination through packaging is remarkable, because scientists in the world now consider it extremely unsubstantiated - but instead promoted it among other official Beijing.
The report also recommends that the search for the source of the virus be expanded, not only in China, but also in neighbouring countries.
Jesse Bloom, a biologist at the Seattle Cancer Research Center, told The New York Times that he had read the report and saw no convincing explanation as to why the leak from the lab should be considered highly credible.
Although Bloom generally agrees that the most likely version is a mutation in human transmission from animals.
WHO team visited Uhanj Institute of Virology on 3 February
The head of the international team working for WHO, scientist Peter Ben Embarek, explained back in February that the team had spoken in detail with the staff of the Uhans Institute of Virology and other similar biological laboratories in Wuhan, and concluded that the leak was unlikely, as laboratory safety measures are maintained at an adequate level, and that, until December 2019, this particular species of coronavirus was not known to Chinese scientists, they said.
A member of the international team, British scientist Peter Daszak, who runs the New York-based organization for the prevention of pandemics, EcoHealth Alliance, told The New York Times that the Chinese had done nothing to prevent WHO experts from talking to ear scientists who had been on the ground since the outbreak.
According to Daszak, the hypothesis that the virus was leaked from the laboratory was simply political speculation.
Another member of the group, Australian microbiologist Dominic Dwyer, told reporters in February that the WHO team had seen nothing during visits to the lab that would allow for leakage predictions.
Maybe we haven't all been shown?
We can't know.
The team's task was not to investigate the laboratory, "Duyer added.
Coronavirus has killed 2.8 million people worldwide.
Sick in a French hospital
A few days after that press conference on February 9, Dueyer stated in an interview with Reuters, The New York Times, and The Wall Street Journal that China had not provided the WHO mission with essential baseline data on the emergence of a new coronavirus.
According to him, the Chinese authorities had failed to show foreign scientists raw data on the first known patients, which was standard practice.
Instead, scientists received a brief synthesis of the requested data.
Immediately afterwards, WHO head Tedros Adhan Ghebreyesus assured the organization that it was not discarding any of the main versions of the virus.
Speaking to some members of the team, I want to assure you that all hypotheses remain valid and need further analysis and study.
And some of this work simply lies outside the mission's tasks and capabilities, "Gabriel said.
Officials also exchanged information on the findings of the WHO mission before they were officially flagged:
We have serious questions about the methodology and process of writing this report, including the fact that the authorities in Beijing apparently helped write it, "U.S. Secretary of State Anthony Blinken said in an interview with CNN.
The United States makes statements on the report.
Is this not an attempt by the US to put pressure on the members of the WHO expert group? "
- the spokesman of the Chinese Foreign Ministry said.
The head of the WHO mission, Peter Ben Embarek, said on Tuesday that, according to all members of his team, research in Wuhan and its surroundings should continue.
Scientists believe it is very important to "track" the first cases of infection (which is quite difficult if the first infected people carried Covid-19 without symptoms or in a light form), to find places and routes for the spread of the virus - all of this will help to combat the next epidemics and pandemics.
In addition, the WHO mission recommends that the origin of SARS-CoV-2 be sought not only in China but also in neighbouring countries.
Scientists refer to reports of closely related coronaviruses found in Thailand, Cambodia and Japan.
But critics of the Chinese authorities fear that they will not allow foreign scientists to dig too deep.
"There is a risk that the study will stall, and we may never know where the virus actually came from," the health expert from the American Council for International Relations, Yanchyun Huang, told The New York Times.