Coronavirus - Conspiracy Against Humanity
Lena Shulika, VoxUkraine
Facebook partnership facebook check
An article appeared on the Internet that allegedly reveals the "truth" about coronavirus and the aims of "pseudo-pandemics."
The following points are based on:
Theme 1: The development of COVID-19 was funded by the Bill Gates Foundation, the world's leading vaccine promoter.
The author of the article also notes that in 2010, Gates created "Good Club" (among participants George Soros, Warren Buffett, former Mayor of New York Michael Bloomberg, CNN chairman Ted Thioner, and others), one of whose goals was to address birth control and Earth overpopulation.
We have repeatedly pointed out that coronavirus is of natural origin.
The claim of artificial origin is not confirmed.
The "Good Club" meeting was indeed convened by Bill Gates, Buffett, and Rockefeller, but it is unrelated to COVID-19.
The Summit focused on addressing the global economic downturn and the multiple health and environmental crises.
Experts in the field of charity noted that because the club meetings were not open, this led to the emergence of conspiracy theories around the Good Club.................
Theme 2: Bill Gates is a major investor (and actually a co-owner) of WHO.
WHO has no owners and anyone can contribute to the organization 's budget.
As of the end of the first quarter of 2020, the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation had funded 11.41% of the WHO programme budget for 2020-2021.
This is the second highest of all "contributions."
Most of the contribution in the United States alone is 11.96%.
It is also worth noting that the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization (GAVI), which has the third largest share of funding in the WHO programme budget for the period, at 6.49 per cent, is partially funded by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation.
Theme 3: Bill Gates has also initiated human certification, which presents itself as a demonstration of coronavirus immunity.
Bill Gates' claims about vaccination and vaccination passports are also untrue.
VoxCheck has already analyzed them in this material.
Theme 4: COVID-19 is the predicted result of 5G activation and destruction of the human and animal immune systems.
Most scientists, as well as WHO, tend to think that the virus originated from a natural mutation and passed on to humans from animals.
5G networks have nothing to do with this.
We have repeatedly refuted such faxes around 5G networks (here, here and here).
Theme 5: Carnations will be continuously extended due to "new coronavirus outbreaks" (increases in 5G power).
5G does not affect the spread of infection or the development of COVID-19 disease.
Information that the quarantine will be restored and continued for a certain period of time is not confirmed.
Some scientists suggest that social distancing measures may last for a year or more.
It all depends on how quickly the virus will disappear and when an effective vaccine will be invented.
In Ukraine, for example, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Denis Shmygal, has stated that there may be certain restrictions depending on the epidemiological situation over the next two years, but there are no long-term official solutions.
Issue 6: It has been announced that the vaccine will be tested in June and mandatory vaccination can begin as early as July.
The date of release of the coronavirus vaccine is currently unknown, and experts predict a minimum of one year for its development.
In Europe, Germany, France, Italy and the Netherlands signed the first contract for at least 300,000 doses of coronavirus vaccines on June 13.
According to representatives of the German Ministry of Health, at best the vaccine could be completed before the end of the year.
The contract partner is the pharmaceutical company AstraZeneca.
Vaccine doses will be divided according to population.
However, there is no reason to believe that when the vaccine is available, it will be mandatory.
Theme 7: Statistics of coronavirus patients are updated with asymptomatic patients and deaths from all diseases in a row
The author uses this thesis as an argument that the pandemic is a global farce, and the diagnosis of coronavirus is put to all diseases by doctors.
On the date of release (1 May), more than 3,100,000 patients and more than 224,000 deaths were recorded in the world and 10,800 in Ukraine.
Cases of which 272 are fatal.
As of 15 June, there are over 7.8 million new coronavirus infections worldwide and over 431,000 deaths.
In Ukraine, 31.8 thousand cases of COVID-19 have so far been confirmed, of which 901 are fatal.
80% of the infected may carry the disease in a mild or asymptomatic form.
However, it is difficult to determine the exact number of people who carry asymptomatic diseases.
The main threat, however, is that asymptomatic patients may infect other people, leading to an outbreak of disease and overloading of the medical system.
Therefore, the coronavirus pandemic is real, and the claim that coronavirus is a fake is false.
Theme 8: Infrasound generators can go with 5G equipment.
In particular, dry cough and asphyxiation are caused by intense infrared exposure.
Research by American-Canadian scientist Michael Persinger has shown that infrasound in the range of 63 to 70 Hz can cause symptoms of choking, salivation, coughing, and swallowing pain.
However, 5G technology is safe.
Theme 9: Coronavirus can be "infected" directly during testing, or tests can deliberately show infection (even healthy people) as an excuse to remove a person - first to a hospital, then to a morgue.
There is no evidence that coronavirus can be contracted during testing.
VoxCheck has written about this before.
VoxUkraine is a unique content to read.
Subscribe to our e-mail, read us on Facebook and Twitter, watch current videos on YouTube.
We believe that words have power and ideas have decisive influence.
VoxUkraine brings together the best economists and helps them bring ideas to tens of thousands of compatriots.
VoxUkraine content is free (and always will be free), we do not sell advertising, we do not lobby.
We need smart people and money to do more research, create new influential projects, and publish many quality articles.
There are people!
VoxUkraine.
We'll do more together.
The authors do not work, consult, own shares or receive funding from a company or organization that would benefit from this article, nor are they related in any way to them.