How the Tajiks Won
Illustration of the coronavirus
Poverty, heaven help, or incredible luck - it is not known what helped, but the Ministry of Health's figures speak of Tajikistan's victory over coronavirus: morbidity statistics are zero
In Tajikistan, coronavirus infections have ended.
Almost completely.
The low-hanging and previously-frozen timeline of disease has finally frozen: an impressive 99.3% of the infected have been successfully treated.
For the past month, Tajikistan has proudly been at the very end of the treacherous ranking among post-Soviet countries.
Only Turkmenistan has the best figures, which completely deny cases of infection entering the country, but they are not taken into account.
Coronavirus will be destroyed
When you read the reports of the Republican Ministry of Health, you hear the sound of fanfare.
It seems that the pandemic in Tajikistan is at least fully under control if not defeated.
The last three patients were discharged.
As of 13 January, there were no infected patients left in Tajikistan.
A total of 13,308 people were cured in the country in six months, 13,218 of whom died.
The numbers are more than cheerful.
Especially against the background of other CIS countries, where mortality has long exceeded tens of thousands.
But boasting about something big, such as detailed statistics by region, a successful treatment, or even surprising human stories, the agency is in no hurry.
As well as sharing experiences with other countries or giving winning interviews to foreign journalists.
Jamoliddin Abdullozoda has limited himself to optimistic forecasts that the pandemic will decline as early as 2021 and that it will likely end by summer.
However, people are asked not to relax and stay alert.
"Although the coronavirus in our country is almost gone, we must continue to be vigilant, strictly follow the recommendations of doctors, the rules of personal and public hygiene," the Head of State warned.
We don't care.
In the meantime, there are fewer and fewer people in Dushanbe with masks on their faces.
In public transport, protection is at best available only to drivers and controllers.
Law enforcement also succumbed to the general sense of relaxation.
At the entrances to offices, departments, shops, pharmacies, cafés and restaurants are painted "terrible" warnings: "Entrance without masks is strictly forbidden."
You look at the flow of visitors - and you feel sorry for the wasted ink in the printer and A4 sheets.
From the mass panic and hysteria everything went smoothly to indifference.
The SMS message with warnings from the Ministry of Health is no longer coming either.
Garmala and cabinet with secret: how Tajik experts fought the coronavirus
In schools and higher education, the mass regime is observed only during classes and lectures.
Crowds are moving around in a chaotic fashion, with no hint of socialization or other precautions.
An ideal environment for the spread of the virus?
Definitely.
Collective immunity?
Hardly.
In fact, according to the same statistics, only 13,000 out of 9.5 million citizens have passed the "crown."
Less than one per cent.
Help over or play with statistics
The public has little confidence in official statistics, as can be seen from social media posts.
As the data of the Ministry of Health is limited to three figures per day, commentators are given a wide range of views, theories and discussions.
Nevertheless, the incidence of the disease in Tajikistan is indeed declining.
The country has become more peaceful.
But what quantitative indicators are behind this remains to be seen.
It is not required to provide PCR tests or blood tests on antibodies in schools, universities or at work, as in Russia.
Therefore, many may simply be unaware that they have already had COVID-19 or are now asymptomatic.
Of the many theories put forward, including ultraviolet, hot weather, God's help, emergency lockdown, and room heating, it was not possible to choose the most reliable and at least scientifically justified.
Better to be poor, but healthy
A number of experts see the reason for the good statistics on COVID-19 in Tajikistan as the low standard of living of the population.
It is possible for people to travel abroad, and international tourism in the republic has slowed considerably.
Tajikistan in line: Which countries want to buy COVID-19 vaccine from Russia
The majority of the foreign visitors are specialists from China who work on joint venture contracts.
And in the struggle against the "crown" is elevated to the rank of a state policy, there are no almonds with the disease.
WHO thanked Russia for coronavirus vaccine
Communication with neighbouring Uzbekistan and Kyrgyzstan is partially open, but so far no cases of "import" of the infection have been recorded.
Russia is still not ready to accept the Tajiks, although the shortage of labour already poses certain problems.
For Tajikistan, however, the consequences are much more tragic.
One hope remains for COVAX, which the country joined last year.
Under its provisions, Tajikistan will be provided with funds for the purchase of vaccines for 20 per cent of the population (1.8 million people).
Priority is given to health workers, teachers, people over 50 or with chronic diseases.
However, Tajikistan has not yet decided which vaccine to buy.
There are also differences in the urgency of mass vaccination in general.
Supporters believe that the action will help defeat the disease, while opponents insist on the unproven validity of the clinical trials.