Where the new coronavirus originated: SARS-CoV-2
While some scientists are struggling to find a vaccine that can stop the explosion of the COVID-19 pandemic, others are trying to solve one of the major mysteries of modern virology: where SARS-CoV-2 originated.
However, both the former and the latter recognize that it is difficult to find an effective way to control the disease if little is known about the nature of its agent.
The World Health Organization has established an international research group of scientists to work together to answer the question of the origin of the new coronavirus.
However, many theories are already under consideration in the scientific community, ranging from the natural mutation of the virus to the leak of SARS-CoV-2 from the laboratory.
Theory 1.
It's all the bat's fault.
SARS-CoV-2 is now the third coronavirus to cause an epidemic in 20 years.
The first was SARS-CoV in 2002, the second was MERS-CoV, which started a massive disease in 2012.
However, COVID-19, despite its similarities with previously known coronaviruses, raises many questions to which there is no clear answer.
When the outbreak was reported in Uhani, the culprits of COVID-19 were immediately named bats....
This family of coronaviruses mostly circulates among these animals.
About 500 species of bats are known to carry coronaviruses.
The same animal can be infected with several strains of the virus at the same time, which only contributes to the recombination and evolution of the virus.
As a result, strains have the ability to overcome species barriers.
For SARS-CoV-2, the genome is 96% identical to the virus found in guano bats in 2013 (RaTG13).
With its "predecessor" SARS-CoV-1, the latest coronavirus is only 79% similar, and with MERS-CoV even less - 50%.
That is, the new coronavirus is genetically much more common with a strain that previously circulated only among bats, and much less with strains that were already infecting humans.
In addition, the fact that 99.98% of the new coronavirus samples in infected patients are identical provides a basis for scientists to argue that SARS-CoV-2 has recently been circulating in the human population.
Chinese scientists compared 5 genomes of SARS-CoV-2 and 276 genomes of coronaviruses that previously affected humans and animals.
Researchers found that new viruses appeared from a common ancestor around 2018 due to recombination of the coronavirus of bats and possibly Chinese snakes.
However, a group of scientists challenged their Chinese colleagues' theory that snakes could become infected and be carriers of a new virus.
It would seem that in the fly-mouse version everything is simple, but there is a missing link in this story that raises many questions.
Previously, no cases of direct infection from human bats were known.
During a viral mutation, there was to be an intermediate host in which the virus mutated into a form capable of infecting humans.
At least this was the case with the mutation of the two previous coronaviruses.
In the case of COVID-19, no confirmed animal mediator was found.
According to one version, the link could have been pangolins.
But this hypothesis also raises more questions than answers.
Simply put, there must be another mediator between the RaTG13 virus diagnosed in bats and SARS-CoV-2.
They haven't found it yet.
And until a mediator is found, the theory that the COVID-19 pandemic is the result of a virus leak from the lab is also valid.
Theory 2.
SARS-CoV-2 - Laboratory "child"
First of all, the fact that a laboratory specializing in the study of coronaviruses is located near the Wuhan market, where the first cases of the disease were recorded.
In particular, its staff were exploring ways in which viruses could overcome species barriers.
Proponents of this theory suggest several possible scenarios.
In one hypothesis, a virus adapted to other animal species may have leaked, and later mutated into a strain dangerous to humans.
Alternatively, SARS-CoV-2 may initially be synthetic.
This has been suggested by intelligence agencies in many countries, including Germany, the United Kingdom, Canada, and the United States.
All the more so because humanity has already experienced cases of virus leakage from laboratories.
This was the case with the Marburg virus, which caused severe hemorrhagic fever, in 1977.
What is the fault of the Uhani virologists?
The main argument for the theory of Chinese origin of SARS-CoV-2 is the fact that for the past 15 years, studies have been conducted on bat coronaviruses at Wuhan University.
About four years before the outbreak of the pandemic, Dr. Shi Zhenli, the head of coronavirus research, worked with American researchers to conclude that viruses that are genetically similar to SARS can be transmitted directly from bats to humans, causing untreatable disease.
And in March 2019, a scientist predicted a SARS epidemic that could start in China.
Interestingly, the laboratory where coronaviruses were studied is close to the Wuhan market, which has become the starting point of the future epidemic.
However, the laboratory categorically denies the allegations of strain development and virus leakage.
At the same time, according to one theory, a zero patient was not a market visitor, but an employee of the Uhani Institute of Virology Juan Yanlin.
But soon China "cleared" all references to this patient.
How do Americans feel about the new coronavirus?
As early as 2013, researchers discovered the SARS-like virus SHC014-CoV, which had been "targeted" by bats with a clot.
But two years later, Uhani virologists, together with researchers from the University of North Carolina at SARS and SHC014, created the chimera virus.
It could infect not only bats, but people as well.
Studies in mice have shown that the virus causes pneumonia.
There was no cure for the disease at the time.
It was only in 2018 that a vaccine against this virus was developed.
The scientific community soon expressed its displeasure with such experiments, fearing that by infiltrating outside the laboratory, the virus would pose a serious danger to humanity.
When the pandemic broke out, many remembered SHC014.
However, a group of scientists from North Carolina, Ohio, and Pennsylvania refuted the link between SARS-CoV-2 and the chimera virus, arguing that the genetic codes of the two viruses differ significantly.
What have French scientists found unusual in SARS-CoV-2?
And here 's a French virologist from the University of Aix-Marseille, Etienne Decroli, who' s noticed the unusual construction of the SARS-CoV-2 genome.
French scientists have discovered that the gene encoding the spike protein contains four segments that are not found in other coronaviruses that are genetically similar to humans.
It is believed that these segments are the ones that give SARS-CoV-2 exceptional qualities.
However, the first three segments have also been found in previously known strains of coronavirus, which scientists believe confirm their long-standing origin and evolution.
And the last one is a unique, previously unknown scientist.
It is possible that this fourth segment was the result of laboratory experiments.
Scientists believe that he played a key role in spreading the pathogen to humans.
At the same time, many experts strongly oppose the theory of laboratory origin of the virus.
In particular, microbiologist Christian Andersen, along with colleagues from Columbia, Sydney and Tulane Universities, investigated the genome of the new coronavirus and concluded that it was of natural origin.
Scientists believe that the synthetic virus is based on a known human disease agent, and that the molecular basis of SARS-CoV-2 is more similar to the bat virus.
Destroying the "Biological Weapons" Theory
Theory 3.
Slow mutation
According to many virologists, SARS-CoV-2 could occur in a different scenario.
It is believed that the virus may have originated long before a massive outbreak of infection in 2019.
An adapted strain of the human body could circulate among humans for several years.
But since the infection was not massive, it did not attract much attention.
But then the virus could go through another phase of mutation, which makes the infection much easier, causing the pandemic.
To support this hypothesis, tissue samples of people who died from SARS in the COVID-19 region should be examined prior to the onset of the pandemic.
In addition, some researchers suggest that initially mutated SARS-CoV-2 may not have caused symptoms of the disease in infected people, so they were unaware of it.
And it wasn 't until after another stage of evolution, which might well have happened in the human body, that the virus became really dangerous for humans.
Which of these theories is the most accurate has yet to be determined by scientists.
Meanwhile, research on SARS-CoV-2 continues.
More up-to-date health information on our Telegram channel.
Subscribe: https: / / t.me / foodandhealthru