Scientists have questioned that immunity quickly "forgets" coronavirus
Htps: / / news.mail.ru / society / 44079766 /? story = coronavirus
TASS, 9 November.
Most COVID-19 patients do have lower antibody levels, but the number of producing cells increases.
This conclusion was reached by molecular biologists who observed how antibodies disappeared from the body of people infected with coronavirus.
Preliminary results of their work were published by the electronic scientific library bioRxiv.
Antibodies to the new type of coronavirus, although in much smaller amounts, were present in 80% of blood samples that we collected 6-8 months after the first symptoms of the disease.
Cells that can produce antibodies to SARS-CoV-2 have appeared in most patients with both severe and mild forms of disease.
Their activity grew throughout the time of the observations, "the researchers wrote.
Since the beginning of the coronavirus epidemic, there has been debate about whether the human body can develop long-term immunity to a new type of coronavirus.
Knowing this is very important for determining vaccination strategies and assessing whether humanity will develop collective immunity to SARS-CoV-2.
Early long-term observations of this kind in some European countries show that collective immunity is unlikely to develop naturally.
In addition, scientists at Harvard University (USA) have recently found that coronavirus inhibits the formation of cells that can long-term produce antibodies to SARS-CoV-2.
As a result, scientists began to actively investigate how quickly antibodies begin to disappear from the body of the infected.
Features of the immune response
Molecular biologists and physicians led by Professor Cyan Pan-Hammarström of the Karolinska Institute (Sweden) questioned that immunity quickly "forgets" coronavirus and does not produce cells that can produce antibodies to SARS-CoV-2.
They came to this conclusion by observing the health of about 100 volunteers from Sweden and Italy who survived COVID-19 in the first months of the epidemic.
Some of the participants were asymptomatic or mild, while others were in intensive care with poor prognosis.
After discharge, scientists periodically collected samples of their blood.
They looked at how many antibodies in these samples and T and B cells that produce them.
In the first days after recovery, antibodies of different types were found in approximately 75-85% of patients.
The number of people with light and heavy COVID-19 forms was not different.
This was a big surprise to scientists, as previous studies showed a clear link between the severity of symptoms and antibody concentration.
Moreover, a small group of heavy patients did not have any antibodies at all.
Scientists still do not understand why this happened.
Further observations showed that the antibody concentration in the infected did indeed gradually decrease over time, but more than half of the infected continued to show traces even after 6-8 months of recovery.
Furthermore, scientists have not observed any negative changes in the number and behaviour of B and T cells.
This may mean that most sufferers may develop long-term immunity.
Scientists note that such results contradict some other observations of changes in antibody concentration and immune cell activity over time.
They hope that further observations will shed light on this point and help to understand why some patients who have overdeveloped immunity to coronavirus disappear quickly, while others retain it.
It should be added that the article was not reviewed by independent experts or reviewed by journal editors, as was usually the case in such cases.
Therefore, the conclusions drawn from it and similar articles should be treated with caution.