Coronavirus in the United States has been taking place since August 2019.
Photo: © RIA Novosti / Sergey Melkonov
In the face of quarantine and sudden release, many are now studying the history of coronavirus.
And it turns out that the frightening news of these infections came long before the current pandemic.
And they were all related to laboratory development.
Leaks of dangerous strains are not excluded.
REN TV carefully studied all the data.
The article in the authoritative journal Nature is dated 2015.
It describes the "success" of American scientists.
They were able to cross the bat virus with the SARS virus.
The result is a deadly hybrid.
The chimera infected human respiratory cells - proof that the surface protein SHC014 has the necessary structure to bind to and infect the key receptor on the cells
, was said in the communication.
It is very similar to the mechanism of coronavirus............
It cannot be said that the virus first entered the human population in Wuhan, but it did not enter it before............
It was there that he was first discovered.
They were dealing with the virus.
They had systems. "
- says researcher, microbiologist of the State Research Institute of Vaccines and Serum.
The Sword of the Beast.
Of the 15 authors of the new virus study, 13 are scientists from the University of North Carolina.
Two of them are employees of the Wuhan Institute of Virology.
That is, the work was done simultaneously by the US and China.
Competition between countries in biotechnology is a fact.
Therefore, many scientists do not believe that coronavirus is of natural origin.
It is highly unlikely that the bat was the first carrier of the virus from which a human was infected.
Because in December, when the virus was discovered, the bats were hibernating. "
- Virologist Antonio López Guerrero stated.
If the virus was created artificially, how did it break free?
They say, "It's not them."
And call on the White House to acknowledge: the US military brought the infection to Wuhan - the US delegation at the World Military Games in China in October 2019 counted 172 people.
Perhaps the US military brought the epidemic to Wuhan.
America must be transparent in order to make data publicly available.
The United States must give us an explanation! "
- are considered in the PRC.
Such harsh statements are no accident.
It is likely that the virus was originally developed as a biological weapon, which was used at the height of the US and PRC trade wars.
Suspicious and another coincidence: The US has imposed a moratorium on funding any SARS studies as early as 2014.
An exception was made for the Chimera virus.
Moreover, hybrid coronaviruses were cultivated in cells taken from the US Army Institute of Infectious Diseases.
These studies were banned in 2015.
Not SARS, not MERS.
The subsidies appeared to have been from other articles, and research continued.
Most likely, they thought that they had warned the human that this mutation was dangerous. "
Says the head of the Department of Political Science and Sociology of REU.
V. Plekhanov.
There is further evidence: the White House tried to play scenarios of a managed pandemic.
In 2017, the United States Department of State began a nationwide campaign against HIV / AIDS.
The images from the presentation are very reminiscent of what 's happening right now.
The 2019 NATO report states that 29% of all scientific projects were directed to studying the chemical and biological threat.
Seven times more than before.
So the United States was preparing.
American scientists have modified the Chinese bat virus.
It has been operating in the United States since August 2019.
To say that this is a natural hotspot is not necessary. "
- Former member of the UN Biological Weapons Commission, military expert Igor Nikulin believes.
Last summer, the United States was struck by a so-called whooping cough, similar to coronavirus.
Instead of explaining, the states are isolating themselves, including from NATO's closest allies.
And real aid to Italy, where the number of coronavirus deaths exceeds 5,000, is provided by China and Russia.
Nine aircraft with medical equipment and specialists flew from Moscow.
Now our doctors on the Apennine Peninsula, like on a test site in combat conditions, where the situation does not even need to be modeled.
The virus may have mutated, become more aggressive.
It is important that the strain be thoroughly studied in order to take action in time.