Coronavirus is caused by 5G networks: how a monstrous fake came about
In some Western countries, a fake connection between coronavirus and 5G networks has become common.
GQ described three main conspiracy theories.
We draw conclusions from colleagues and our observations.
It all started with the vandalism of 20 cell towers in the United Kingdom in four days of April.
It is believed that this was caused by concerns of the connoisseurs who saw the connection between 5G equipment and the COVID-19 flash.
Telephone operators were also attacked for laying fibre-optic cables.
And in one popular video distributed on the Web, a woman enters into a conversation with employees, stating that they will "kill everyone" if they finish their job.
Many of the towers that were destroyed were designed for 3G and 4G.
Three theories
There are three main theories related to 5G and two of them related to COVID-19, but no evidence is available in all cases.
According to the first theory, 5G causes coronavirus, or at least its symptoms, and is a biological weapon controlled by the leaders of the new world order.
One of the conspirators with tens of thousands of YouTube subscribers associated with QAnon claimed responsibility for the troubles of Bill Gates.
According to his version, Windows was specifically designed to attract viruses, and Gates could earn money from antivirus systems.
Already, he is simultaneously campaigning for depopulation and the fight against the pandemic, all in order to earn a mandatory vaccination in the future.
Another theory states that 5G radiation weakens immunity and people are more exposed to COVID-19.
This theory was supported by maps of the United States, which allegedly showed that cities with this network were the most affected by the virus.
This theory, of course, does not take into account two main factors.
First, 5G exists only in large cities with high population density, where the virus can spread faster, and second, many virus-affected countries have no new network at all, such as Iran.
The third conspiracy theory has nothing to do with coronavirus: it is claimed that the media have deliberately blown up two other manifestly false theories in order to distract from the real dangers of 5G and thereby discredit opponents of the new network.
When it started
Buzzfeed reported that videos and theories on the subject began to appear last year, when new cell towers were installed in big cities.
Rollers with titles such as "The Man Who Works on 5G Towers Tells the Whole Truth About Danger!
, "have been distributed hundreds of thousands of times.
Their publication dates coincide with the time when the UK operator EE announced the installation of 5G in six major cities in the country.
Since January 2020, when coronavirus was declared a pandemic, QAnon and users of the r / conspiracy website began spreading theories linking the new disease to 5G.
The results, apart from the destruction of the towers, are already evident.
One user of Reddit wrote that a husband who works in a cable company is increasingly getting calls from people who want to give up the Internet because of the 5G threat.
Wired noted that these ideas were noticed and disseminated by algorithms that recognized the trend but did not recognize the idiocy of what was happening.
Celebrities have also put a fake hand in circulation.
Actor Woody Harrelson, with two million followers, twice shared on Instagram how 5G exacerbates coronavirus.
Both positions were subsequently removed.
Rapper M.I.A. and actor John Cusack also decided to speak on the subject.
Famous pastor Chris Oyahiloma with great influence (his Facebook page has gathered two million likes) talks about conspiracy theories, the new world order and the 5G and COVID-19 connection.
Producer Teddy Riley also decided not to stand aside and discussed the theory on Instagram Live.
Response
Faced with the rapid spread of false information about 5G and COVID-19, YouTube began to delete the video.
This is part of the new rules on coronavirus materials that can mislead users.
A large number of scientists and doctors have spoken out and strongly rejected this conspiracy theory.
Simon Clarke, an associate professor of microbiology at the University of Reading, England, stated in an interview with the BBC that such theories are "complete nonsense."
He added that the theory of 5G risk to the immune system has not been proven.
In March, the International Commission for the Protection against Non-Ionizing Radiation (ICNIRP) stated that 5G communications were safe.
The head of the organization, Eric van Rongen, sent a message to GQ confirming that there is no link between the new network and coronavirus.
He also rejected the theory that 5G - or any other cellular network - could negatively affect immunity.
Context
5G is the fifth generation of cellular communications.
In August 2019, Factcheck.kz tested claims that 5G networks are harmful to human health and concluded that they are false and manipulative.
At the time, it was noted that research on the effects of 5G radiation on human health had not yet been conducted.
None of these studies, which mention some of the risks of previous generations' networks, is considered convincing.
Contribute to the fight against disinformation!