Coronavirus: latest news on April 20.
Russia resumes flights to Estonia, the country has its own COVID strains
The effectiveness of the Sputnik V vaccine was 97.6 per cent
Today, April 20, is the 501st day since the discovery of the coronavirus in the Chinese city of Wuhan and the 405th day since the World Health Organization announced the pandemic.
Worldwide, there were 142.5 million cases of infection and 3 million victims of the pandemic.
The United States has the highest number of infections (32.4 million).
India placed second (15.3 million) and Brazil placed third (13.9 million).
Russia fell to fifth place (4.7 million), behind France (5.2 million)..............
Vaccine and medicine
The effectiveness of the Sputnik V vaccine was 97.6%.
After 3.8 million Russians were vaccinated between 5 December 2020 and 31 March 2021, the incidence from the 35th day of the first vaccination was 0.027%.
WHO experts do not recommend requiring proof of vaccination for international flights.
In their view, this could exacerbate inequalities in freedom of movement.
American scientists have discovered that an experimental drug originally developed for the treatment of influenza is capable of lowering the level of SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus in those affected.
It can also prevent damage to the lungs caused by the infection.
Coronavirus in Russia and the World
In Russia, two new strains of coronavirus began to be formed immediately, the head of Rospotrebnadzor said.
She stressed that similar descriptive options had not yet been found in any country.
Rapid BIO, together with Avivirom, registered Russia's first rapid test to detect antibodies to coronavirus after vaccination.
In addition, pre-clinical studies of each test to assess immunity to coronavirus have been initiated.
Russia resumes air service with Estonia.
The first flight from Moscow to Tallinn will take place at the end of April, Tallinn Airport press service reports.
The World Health Organization has extended for three months the global health emergency in response to the COVID-19 pandemic.
The World Health Organization (WHO) has recorded the highest number of infections in the world, while the Russian Federal Office stated that the situation of coronavirus in the country is stabilizing.
What Doctors and Scientists Say
The effects of a transmitted coronavirus can be varied.
In particular, a person may lose hearing and memory, the immunologist Vladislav Zhemchug warned.
He stressed that postpartum syndrome can develop even in those who have a mild form of illness.
An international team of scientists has confirmed that the new Brazilian strain of SARS-CoV-2 is twice as contagious as other forms of the pathogen.
This makes it more dangerous for people who are already sick.
A review of recent news on coronavirus.
Subscribe to our mailing list to keep up to date, join us at Google News and Yandex.Zen.
We also have a cable channel @ uranews where we quickly publish the most important.