Temporary Immunity: Europe Returns Quarantine Measures Against the Coronavirus
The quarantine regime has been tightened in Europe, which has opened its borders since 1 July and immediately increased the incidence of COVID-19 coronavirus due to the influx of tourists.
There is an alarm in Greece, where some vacationers travel around the country without waiting for the results of the analysis, and then it turns out that they and everyone in contact no longer need to go to the beach but to the isolation room.
Spain is closing the beaches of Andalusia, and microbiologists in Madrid claim that, according to their data, immunity from coronavirus is temporary.
He disappears in half two months.
Greece has promised its economy and entrepreneurs a tourist stream, but it is not even a stream - almost an hour per drop.
All but one of the border crossings have been overflown, with the border with Bulgaria being 12 km long.
The Greek authorities knew how many people would come to them.
It 's simple math.
This summer, there were about as many tourists as there were a year ago.
It's just not organized now! "
- the tourist is angry in the queue before the border.
Without the test, Greece would not be empty, but even that did not hold up the statistics that the Greeks were so proud of.
48 new cases per day, two thirds of them confirmed right at the border - COVID-19 seized.
Mobile groups continue to take tests: if you want to go to sea, you have to wait.
If someone wants to enter the country, it is necessary to fill out a special form 48 hours before entering.
Our goal is to receive many tourists, as well as to ensure the safety of all who are in the country, "says Panayotis Arequinas, President of the National Public Health Organization of Greece.
Talking about "there's a second-wave risk or no second-wave risk" without antibody research is a waste of time, and there are almost no antibodies.
So far, no scientist has answered exactly whether COVID-19 can be overridden twice or three times.
The Spanish claim that the antibodies disappeared a few weeks later.
The analysis took place in three phases.
Seven per cent of the patients surveyed lost immunity in the second stage.
Fourteen on the third.
And there is no collective immunity in the country - only five percent of Spaniards have found antibodies to the virus.
The study found that antibodies were more commonly produced in patients who had relapses with more pronounced symptoms.
It is also important to note that the absence of antibodies does not automatically mean the absence of immune protection, "explains Marina Polyan, Director of the National Epidemiology Centre of Spain.
Spain is trying very hard to be in the trend of a return to normalcy, moving in the same rhythm as other countries.
For the first time in three months, a flight from Latin America landed in Madrid.
The university entrance examinations were started.
But the disease curve is creeping up, and so the regional authorities are taking the old measures - in Andalusia 50 newly opened beaches have been closed.
There is a quarantine in the province of Galicia.
The country had not been in such a crisis for a long time, complained to Prime Minister Sánchez during a visit to Portugal.
We all faced a crisis of this magnitude for the first time since the end of the Second World War!
We have to deal with unprecedented health, economic and social problems, "said Spanish Prime Minister Pedro Sánchez.
Italy, too, wondered whether it had rushed to open the country for visits.
The operations headquarters is looking for the 1,200 Bangladeshi who arrived in Rome last week after six passengers were tested positive on the morning of 7 July.
Terminal Five was converted into a field hospital.
Communication with Bangladesh is closed.
The season began at La Scala.
"We remind you of the need to wear protective masks all the time you are in the theatre," a warning is sounded in the theatre hall.
The official season starts in September, it's a prelude.
Besides masks, of course, distance.
Instead of two thousand La Scala will sell six hundred tickets for the show.
Please update your browser: the current version does not support video playback
https: / / www.vesti.ru / article / 2427609