Scientists have called the coronavirus a source of food snakes.
The origin of the new Chinese coronavirus may have been snakes: it was probably originally transmitted to humans through their consumption of food, CNN reports.
The Ouhani market, recognized as a source of viral infection, sold not only seafood, fish and meat, but also edible reptiles and rats.
Source of virus
The snakes - the southern Chinese multicolored crab and the Chinese cobra - may be the source of the new coronavirus that triggered the outbreak of viral pneumonia in China, scientists have discovered.
Early research has shown that the 2019-nCoV virus may have originated in bats.
However, new research has shown that coronavirus virus protein is most similar to wild snake virus protein, which the Chinese actively sold in food markets.
The hypotheses do not exclude each other: snakes hunt bats in nature, and there is a high probability of transmission of the virus from them through snakes to humans along the food chain.
It remains a mystery how the virus has adapted so quickly to both cold-blooded and warm-blooded hosts.
The exact type of animal that has infected people on a massive scale is complicated by the fact that the Ochny market for seafood is diversified and closed.
Victims
On Thursday, 23 January, the number of people infected with the new virus reached 630 and the number of victims reached 17.
Two days ago, no more than 300 people were infected and 9 people were killed.
A few days ago, Chinese authorities declared that the new virus was "still preventable and controllable" and did not pose a global threat.
As of Thursday, the Chinese cities of Huangan (7.5 million people) and the regional capital of Wuhan (11 million people) are closed for quarantine.
Residents are not allowed to leave their homes until a special order is issued.
Beijing cancelled all major New Year's celebrations in honor of the Chinese New Year.
There are currently three people in Russia who are suspected of being infected with new coronavirus.
Not yet confirmed.
Markets
On Thursday's news of the spread of infection, Chinese indices dropped another 3%.
It is not yet clear what damage tourism operators will suffer: Intourist and Anex Tour have already announced that Russians are requesting cancellation of tours to China.