Experts: "herd immunity" to COVID will not be, will have to live with coronavirus
Photo Maridav / Shutterstock.com
At the end of the first year of the COVID pandemic, experts in epidemiology and mathematical modelling have come to a less than comforting conclusion: even with mass vaccination for "herd immunity" and the extinction of the epidemic, it is unlikely to be possible to calculate - for the foreseeable future, coronavirus will remain the permanent background of our lives.
Last week, Nature published an article entitled "Five reasons why herd immunity to COVID is probably impossible."
This means that rapid and simultaneous vaccination of the entire population of the world is not possible for many obvious reasons, that immunity after transmission decreases over time, and that, if vaccination is uneven, the increased evolutionary pressure on coronavirus is likely to lead to the emergence and multiplication of new strains of the virus that can infect the vaccinated.
In addition, after vaccination, people tend to consider themselves invulnerable and discard all precautions that can turn them into active vectors of infection.
The article emphasizes that the degree of protection from asymptomatic infection provided by vaccination is not yet known.
The statement by the Israeli Ministry of Health and Pfizer on the 94% level of protection has not been taken seriously by the scientific community, as no supporting evidence has yet been published.
Since the first months of the epidemic, it has been known that asymptomatic carriers of the virus can infect other people - hence, it is not yet clear to what extent mass vaccination is slowing the hidden spread of the infection.
The hope of acquiring "herd immunity" was naturally greatly undermined by the experience of the Brazilian city of Manaus.
The first wave of the epidemic last spring was very severe in the city, and local researchers estimate that by June some 60% of the population had already contracted COVID.
For several months, the disease in Manaus was almost eradicated, and epidemiologists considered the city to be protected by herd immunity.
In January, however, Manaus was hit by a second, even more severe epidemic - this time a new version of the P.1 coronavirus was raging in the city, from which previously acquired immunity does not seem to have been protected.
By spring the P.1 became dominant in Brazil and began to spread around the world, it is already registered in 20 countries, including the US, reports the Wall Street Journal.
Epidemiologists say that this variant is twice as contagious, increases the risk of re-infection by 61% and is more common in relatively young people.
Today, in Brazil, more than 3,000 people die every day, and 30 die under the age of 60.
Based on all these data, epidemiologists conclude that coronavirus cannot be completely eradicated - it will have to somehow adapt and return to normal life without hope of "herd immunity."
Vaccination dramatically reduces severe morbidity and mortality, and that should be enough to open the economy - but hygienic precautions and rules of social isolation are likely to remain in our lives for a long time.