Name of animal from which coronavirus was transmitted
Who could be the intermediate host of the virus?
A team of scientists from China has determined that the possible intermediate host of the new type of coronavirus is the animal pangolin.
This is reported on Friday by Interfax with reference to Chinese television.
Scientists have found that the genome sequence of the new type of coronavirus isolated from pangolins is 99% identical to the genome of the new type of coronavirus in people affected by the disease.
Some researchers have suggested that pangolins may not be the only intermediate hosts of the virus.
The study was conducted by specialists from the South China Agricultural University and the Linnan-Guangdong Modern Agriculture Laboratory.
They studied a thousand samples of genetic material.
Experts claim that their work will allow faster control of the coronavirus outbreak.
They hope that it will help scientists find other potential hosts of the virus, and so far they have been urged not to approach wild animals.
However, it is not clear whether the coronavirus could be transmitted to humans by the pangolins.
Earlier, Chinese scientists had suggested that for the first time a human could be infected with coronavirus by a snake.
It has also been suggested that the origin of the virus may have been from animals in the family Pteranodon.
Pangolins are mammals covered with large scales.
It is found in Africa and Asia, where it is not uncommon.
Pangolins are extremely popular among poachers in Asia, and there are laws in China that restrict their catch.
Chinese media have compared the cost of a black market pangolin comb to the cost of silver.
The high prices of pangolins are linked to their popularity in Chinese folk medicine.
The treatment of pangolin scales offers many diseases, from asthma to arthritis.
Pangolin meat is also highly valued and is considered a delicacy in China and Vietnam.
We recall, Shmygal gave the reasons for Kobolev's dismissal from Naftogaz.
Previously, Vesti-ua.net wrote, Coronavirus is not the flu: what humanity has been facing.
Westi-ua.net also reported that What can destroy Putin's regime: two scenarios.