Wuhan scientists did create an "artificial" coronavirus - but not that one.
Laboratory of Special Pathogens and Biosafety, Wuhan Institute of Virology, 2017.
It is easy to see special staff protection measures that should protect the laboratory from problems with virus leakage from it to the environment / © AFP
Biological bomb: assembly instruction
A new class of conspiracy theories emerged from a 2015 article in Nature, which, five years ago, caused a great scandal.
The authors, American and two Chinese scientists from the Special Pathogens and Biosafety Laboratory of the Wuhan Institute of Virology, took a mouse virus and SARS virus from 2002-2003.
By analyzing what is responsible for specific RNA sites of the virus, scientists have found a way to make such coronavirus capable of simultaneously infecting laboratory mice and human cells (as well as one of the monkeys).
The resulting chimeric virus was named SHC014-MA15.
Why it was done is understandable.
If you want to study what a new coronavirus like SARS could be - and a number of scientific groups have been waiting for it to happen, because it 's evolutionarily logical - it would be good to learn to fight it in advance.
You have to fight with a vaccine, and you have to work on an experimental animal or at least a cell culture.
Therefore, there is nothing to blame virologists: objectively such experiments are useful.
Of course, as is customary in a highly competitive scientific world, the authors of the article have been criticized as harshly as possible.
The main idea was, what you 've achieved by creating this chimeric virus, it' s not clear, and what would happen if it were to escape, it 's a very clear epidemic.
But time has shown the shortsightedness of critics.
In 2018, it was discovered that there is a vaccine that can prevent the SHC014-MA15 virus from entering the host.
By the way, it is once again easy to show that the current pandemic is not that ghastly virus.
If it were him, everyone would have had the same vaccine they used on rodents two years ago.
Unfortunately, this drug will not help: the real coronavirus of 2019 has gone far beyond the laboratory of 2015.
It is "attached" to human cells by another protein, so there is little benefit from that vaccine.
Comparison of passports: natural or synthetic?
The virus has no face, and to understand which of them is which, you need to compare genomes.
Therefore, a group of American researchers decided to investigate whether the 2015 chimeric virus (SHC014-MA15) is actually similar to the 2019 coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2).
To that end, they compared the progenitor of the 2015 virus, SARS, to the current coronavirus.
It turns out there are more than five thousand nucleotides.
In SARS-CoV-2, there are only 30,000 of them, which is a very big difference.
However, the related coronavirus found in Chinese bats differed from the current source of the epidemic by only 4% of genes - less than 1,500 nucleotides.
So the chimeric virus looks like a new one smaller than the new one looks like a "wild" Chinese bat virus.
Finally, authors of a recent study in the United States have noted that the 2015 chimeric virus was not bound to cells by ACE2.
He used a completely different "gate," different proteins.
This means that they have little in common, not only in terms of genes, but also in terms of "methods" of implantation into human cells.
Could the new coronavirus have been obtained in the lab?
Okay, the reader will.
In fact, the new virus doesn 't look like the chimera from the lab.
But can you even create something like this artificially?
All the more so, the thing is that quarantine has obviously hit the economies of many countries.
All of this comes directly from the script of Fight Club or another film about subverting world governments in an attempt to sow chaos and anarchy around the world.
Why don 't a group of remote anarchists who don' t like civilization try to make something like this?
In principle, it is possible.
Only then, to put it mildly, did they fail.
The virus is half-human: it can kill people, but it can't bring down civilization.
The fact is that for a coronavirus, air is not the main medium of spread.
It is spread mainly with drops lying on doorknobs and the like.
One patient infects on average a healthy couple and one patient has measles, say, 15 healthy.
If we want to create a real combat virus, we need to take measles delivery mechanisms and "hook" them up with bits of, say, HIV.
So that one infected 15, and in the first phase, it couldn 't be cured at all.
It is also desirable to speed up HIV development so that AIDS starts in six months (to be short-lived), rather than years like today.
It will be an ideal epidemic: the whole world will get infected without even noticing any problems (a large incubation period), and only months later will the masses begin to die from the disease.
While such a scheme is attractive, we want to immediately warn young anarchists who are running away to submit documents to the MSU Biofax: first, you won't be taught that way, we don't have the strongest scientific school on the direction of creating new viruses.
We are not China or the United States.
Secondly, there is no need to rush there: we humans are not yet so good at making combat viruses.
Let 's take the same chimeric virus of 2015.
Do you think that clever scientists have some kind of nanoparticles that cut RNA viruses, forcing them to be "transplanted" into human and mouse cells?
Nothing like that.
A serial passage was used - or, speaking of human language, the placement of capsid viruses of the fly mouse on the respiratory tract cells of the normal, non-flying mouse.
Some of the viruses were reproducible there, some were not.
In time, they acquired the virus needed for laboratory research.
In theory, one might try to make the virus by genetic manipulation, rather than this "natural selection in the laboratory" option.
But, first, it will be noticeable: genes from different viruses will not be randomly scattered throughout the genome, but will form "blocks" - large pieces showing similarities to viruses - "protozoans."
The new coronavirus does not have such "blocks."
Second, at this stage in the development of genetics, it 's a very complicated task - for the new Einstein, but only with biological education.
Third, it will take time and effort, but not the fact that it will succeed at all.
Finally, the purpose is unclear.
The anarchist who went to biofakes does not manage to finance large laboratories, and without them, he does not collect such a miracle virus.
A country 's government can finance that, but why?
To inevitably infect your own population?
To make a truly powerful virus that selectively does not infect the carriers of certain genotypes is theoretically possible.
For example, if Y-chromosome haplogroups are used as a means of identifying "own-stranger" (note immediately: the current coronavirus has selectivity and is not close).
But there are almost no genetically pure peoples.
If a virus that does not infect, say, half the Russians, it will not infect half the Ukrainians, Belarusians, Poles, and East Germans (half of all of these people belong to the same haplogroup).
What, then, is the meaning of such "selectivity"?
It 's not a biological bomb, and it' s probably not even.
So the picture is quite simple.
The current coronavirus has no trace of laboratory work on it.
Not in 2015 or later.
In theory, he could be taken to the Wuhan Institute of Virology, but only on the basis of a real wild mouse virus.
And it's not difficult to work on genes, it's a banal "drive" through human tissue - down to adapting the virus to "catch" ACE2.
But even then, there can be no sabotage: successful scientists love life, and none of them will deliberately bomb their own home.
Yes, accidental leakage is possible, but unlikely.
Consider the same Vector: one of its employees contracted the Marburg virus in the 1990s, which they were working to protect.
But he didn 't go outside the lab.
Similarly, the black pox virus, which has been stored in Vector for a very long time, has not been.
And it 's not some kind of coronavirus: an outbreak of smallpox in our time, when the world is full of unwelcome young people, can cause millions of deaths around the world.
However, there was no leak.
We therefore doubt that the new virus could have escaped to the virologists in Wuhan.
It does not seem that Chinese scientists are much more apathetic than Russians.