Home treatment of coronavirus in adults and children: list of best medicines
At the height of the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic, doctors were officially advised to leave COVID-19 patients on an outpatient basis.
What is the treatment for coronavirus at home?
How many days do adult and child coronavirus temperatures last
List of heat-reducing drugs for home use
Paracetamol
Ibuprofen
Ibuklin
Rinza
List of best antiviral drugs in coronavirus
Lopinavir
Ribavirin
Arbidol
Remdesivir
Favipiravir
Avifawai
List of best antibiotics in coronavirus
Azithromycin
Summed
Amoxicillin
Levofloxacin
Ampicillin
Cefotaxime
The most effective cure for coronavirus today
List of preventive drugs
Umifenovar
Recombinant interferon alpha
Hydroxychloroquine
Coronavirus day-care scheme for adults
What should not be taken during treatment
In these circumstances, patients need not only to comply strictly with the prescriptions of doctors in the home environment, but also to know what medications are used to treat coronavirus.
There are many antiviral, heat-reducing, antibacterial drugs with varying degrees of effectiveness.
In this article, we will consider which medications are most effective, how they are administered, and which medications should never be taken.
What is the treatment for coronavirus at home?
At the beginning of the global coronavirus pandemic, doctors around the world stressed that there was no cure for coronavirus.
But this did not mean that no drugs could help with the disease.
This only meant that there was no specific drug for the Sars-cov-2 virus.
However, in the treatment of COVID-19 from the beginning, doctors have been quite effective in using a combination of antiviral drugs, antibiotics, anticoagulants, as well as fire retardants and other agents that have worked together to defeat the disease.
How many days do adult and child coronavirus temperatures last
One of the main symptoms of coronavirus - elevated body temperature - occurs in the first days after infection with coronavirus infection and incubation.
During the course of the disease, the temperature may not rise at all, or may vary from moderate to high.
When the disease is mild, the temperature in adult patients can be maintained for up to 5 days.
In infants, school-age children and adolescents, the temperature rises less frequently and lasts up to three days.
Along with other medications, patients are given antipyretics in home care, as is the case with conventional ARVs.
List of heat-reducing drugs for home use
All of the following medicines should be taken only as prescribed by the doctor and after careful consideration of the instructions.
This list is not a recommendation for the treatment of coronavirus or any other disease.
Paracetamol
An old and tested cure for fever and fever.
Paracetamol is widely used in respiratory infections, influenza and cold, and its efficacy has been confirmed in coronavirus.
The World Health Organization has recommended the use of paracetamol as a heat-reducing agent in domestic treatment of COVID-19.
Paracetamol is used as an alternative to ibuprofen, as it can cause undesirable side effects in acute respiratory infections.
Ibuprofen
A non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug with heat-reducing and pain-relieving effects is also prescribed by some specialists in the integrated treatment of coronavirus.
However, WHO indicated in March 2020 that there is no evidence for ibuprofen in COVID-19.
Moreover, results have already been obtained in France, which allegedly indicate the risk of the use of ibuprofen in the treatment of the disease caused by the Sars-cov-virus.
It has been reported that the drug may worsen the condition of the patient.
Ibuklin
It is a combination of paracetamol and ibuprofen.
It is used in combination with cold and flu.
The medication combines the properties of both drugs, effectively lowering the temperature and alleviating inflammatory symptoms.
The drug is fast acting.
Rinza
Another combination containing paracetamol, phenylephrine and caffeine.
It is prescribed for the treatment of influenza and cold.
It acts as a heat-reducing agent, as well as removing swelling of the mucous membranes, headache and effects on inflammatory processes.
List of best antiviral drugs in coronavirus
Lopinavir
This drug was recommended by Chinese doctors for the treatment of Sars-cov-2 virus.
It is used in combination with another antiviral drug, ritonavir.
Two drugs demonstrated antiviral activity in vitro and proved effective in treating SARS during the 2014 SARS epidemic.
In particular, lopinavir, combined with ritonavir, is thought to reduce dyslexia and reduce the likelihood of death.
Ribavirin
It is an antiviral drug of a wide range of action.
It was also used to treat people with SARS, and was very successful.
There are several drugs on the pharmaceutical market with this active substance: Vero-Ribavirin, Virazole, powders for preparation of solutions and others.
Ribavirin is also released as an inhaler and is used when the patient's oral function is impaired.
It acts directly on the virus, causing RNA mutations and thus disrupting the virus's life cycle.
Arbidol
Russian antiviral drug, which is prescribed by doctors for the treatment of influenza, colds and respiratory infections.
The active substance arbidol is umifenovir.
Despite the lack of proven efficacy of the drug, the Ministry of Health of Russia continues to recommend it for the treatment of patients with coronavirus.
However, this drug is considered safe.
So it can be used if prescribed by a doctor.
If there is no positive effect, there will at least be no negative......
Pharmacies also sell "Arpeflo" and "Aflydol," whose active substance is the same umifenvir.
Remdesivir
It 's an American drug originally designed to treat Ebola.
It was first used by American and Japanese doctors against coronavirus.
Studies conducted in the spring of 2020 have shown that the drug may be promising in the treatment of COVID-19.
However, exact data on the efficacy of remdesivir are not yet available.
Tests in China showed that patients who used the drug recovered on average a third faster than those who did not.
In general, remdesivir was found to be more effective in combination with lopinavir, ritonavir, and interferon beta based on clinical tests.
In Russia, the drug was to be officially sold in the autumn of 2020.
Favipiravir
It was developed and manufactured by the Japanese Pharmaceutical Corporation.
The drug was originally intended for the treatment of influenza, but has a number of side effects and is not recommended for pregnant women, for example.
Early in the pandemic, Chinese physicians conducted studies on the efficacy of fauvipiravir in patients.
It has been compared to Russian umifenovir ("arbidol").
The Japanese drug proved to be more effective.
It reduced symptoms such as coughing and difficulty breathing.
Fabipiravir is recommended for the treatment of mild and moderate forms of coronavirus.
Avifawai
A Russian drug based on favipiravir, a generic of a foreign drug.
It is the first domestic drug developed and released specifically for the treatment of patients infected with Sars-cov-2 virus.
The product is produced by the company "HimRa," and was developed with the support of the Russian State Direct Investment Fund.
In the summer, medicine began to be supplied to Russian hospitals for the treatment of patients with coronavirus.
The FDA and FDA approved the drug.
It has been reported, among other things, that patients recover much faster, and many of the symptoms have been much easier.
However, in practice the efficacy of the drug remains unproven.
The drug has many side effects and contraindications.
In particular, it is contraindicated in pregnant women as well as in patients with kidney failure and liver disease.
List of best antibiotics in coronavirus
Azithromycin
Any antibiotics are ineffective against COVID-19, just because it's a virus.
Antibiotics do not treat viruses.
They are prescribed only in the case of bacterial infection, a complication caused by a strong immune response to a virus attack.
A consequence of this complication is pneumonia - inflammation of the lungs.
Azithromycin is an effective antibiotic that is used in the treatment of a wide range of bacterial infections, including upper respiratory tract infections.....
However, recent studies by American scientists have shown that azithromycin, in combination with antimalarial drugs, antidepressants, and high-pressure drugs, can cause heart attacks.
Patients receiving this cocktail have a 40% chance of heart disease complications.
Summed
The active substance is azithromycin dihydrate.
It is prescribed in infectious and inflammatory diseases, infections of the upper respiratory tract (faringitis, tonsillitis, sinusitis and middle otitis) and organs of the lower respiratory tract (acute bronchitis and exacerbation of acute bronchitis), pneumonia.
Amoxicillin
A broad-spectrum antibiotic, it belongs to the penicillin group.
It is similar in its properties to ampicillin, but unlike an obsolete drug, it is better absorbed and has fewer side effects.
It also differs from ampicillin in that it is resistant to stomach juice and can be used orally, i.e. in the form of tablets.
It is known for bacterial infections of the upper respiratory tract, skin and soft tissue infections, urinary tract infections, and other diseases.
It has contraindications, such as chronic kidney disease, cirrhosis of the liver, severe lung damage, COPD, congestive heart failure, and immunosuppression.
Levofloxacin
It is an antibacterial drug belonging to the third generation fluoroquinolone group.
It is an antimicrobial that attacks harmful microorganisms and breaks their DNA.
It is usually prescribed as an alternative to traditional antibiotics in patients who are contraindicated for health reasons.
It is used to treat diseases of the lower respiratory tract, organs, skin and soft tissues, urinary tract and kidney.
It is used in the treatment of prostatitis.
The drug is included in the recommendations for the treatment of coronavirus and non-hospital pneumonia in-patient and out-patient settings.
Ampicillin
It is a semi-synthetic antibiotic, an old and tested treatment for various bacterial infections, including colds.
It is effective in treating pneumonia, bronchopneumonia, angina.
Unlike the first known antibiotic, penicillin, which is active only in gram-positive microorganisms, ampicillin is also effective against gram-negative microbes.
Cefotaxime
It is a polysynthetic antibiotic of the third generation cephalosporin group, and has a wide range of effects.
It fights both gram-positive and gram-negative bacteria.
It is used when penicillins, aminoglycosides and sulfonylamides are ineffective.
Cefotaxime is prescribed for infections of the lower respiratory tract - bronchitis, pneumonia, pleurisy, abscesses, ear, throat, nose, bone and soft tissue infections, gynaecological diseases, Lyme disease, bacterial meningitis and other pathologies.
The most effective cure for coronavirus today
According to the Russian Ministry of Health, the most effective drug for the treatment of the new coronavirus infection is the domestic "Avifavir," a derivative of Japanese fauvipiravir.
The drug was registered in May 2020 and immediately began to be used to treat patients with COVID-19..
The drug is manufactured by the company "HimRa" and was developed with the support of the Russian Direct Investment Fund.
The active substance fauipiravir has a wide range of activity against RNA-containing viruses, including influenza viruses, rhinoviruses, and respiratory syncytial virus.
The drug acts on the mechanism of elongation of the RNA chain, thus stopping replication, i.e. the propagation of the virus.
Fabipiravir has been shown to be effective in laboratory tests and studies in experimental animals.
In humans, the drug has been tested in the treatment of Ebola virus, rabies, severe fever and thrombocytopenia syndrome.
So far, no RNA virus has been able to resist fauvipiravir.
The cost of the drug "Avifavir" in Russia is 8,000 rubles per package..
In early November, however, Russian President Vladimir Putin ordered that Avifawir be given to outpatient patients free of charge.
Patients will also be provided with domestic medicines "Areplivir" and "Coronavir" free of charge.
According to the Russian Ministry of Health, the effectiveness of Avifavir is 90%.
However, some researchers and physicians deny this.
For example, according to Japanese studies, the active substance Favipiravira is effective only in light forms of coronavirus.
Instead of 14 days, patients who took this medicine had 11 days of pain.
Symptoms such as fever, shortness of breath, drowsiness, diarrhoea, nausea, vomiting, dry cough and others decreased.
However, the efficacy of COVID-19 has not yet been proven by independent clinical trials.
Only 460 people participated in the tests conducted by the developer in Russia.
It has been reported that several patients with coronavirus who participated in Avifavir tests have died.
However, RFPI reported that the drug showed a high ability to block the mechanisms of virus reproduction, facilitate symptoms, and reduce the duration of disease in most subjects.
Patients were reported to be twice as sick with Avifavir as without it.
It is well known that Avifavir has serious contraindications.
For example, it should not be applied to pregnant and lactating women.
The drug may have a teratogenic effect, that is, it can cause foetal abnormalities.
It is also absorbed into the mother's milk and passed on to the child during feeding.
Favipiravir-based drugs (including Avifavir) are prescribed for COVID-19 treatment in Russia, India, China and Saudi Arabia.
In our country it is prescribed and used in that number for domestic treatment.
However, the patient should not be admitted without a doctor's appointment.
Women who are not sure that they are expecting a child should not be given the drug.
Furthermore, the drug cannot be used as a preventive measure.
He is also not assigned to patients with severe coronavirus.
List of preventive drugs
The World Health Organization continues to warn that specific drugs for the treatment and prevention of COVID-19 coronavirus do not exist.
However, there is a list of medications that can be taken as a prevention of the disease.
These are mainly the same medications that are prescribed to prevent other viral infections, such as influenza.
Combined with other precautions, such as wearing masks and other personal protective equipment, regular hand washing and surface disinfection, these drugs can protect against infection or strengthen the body against coronavirus.
Umifenovar
The Ministry of Health of Russia recommended this drug (the active substance "Arbidola") as a prevention of coronavirus.
As mentioned above, the efficacy of the drug has not yet been proven, but there is little harm from it.
Recombinant interferon alpha
Interferons are normally produced by the body itself and are a natural "medicine" against viruses.
In an influenza epidemic, doctors often prescribe artificial interferons to strengthen the body's own power to combat the virus threat.
Recombinant interferon alpha or IFN-a2b increases the body's resistance to viruses, has immunomodulatory and general strengthening effects, and has a small anti-inflammatory effect.
Hydroxychloroquine
It 's an antimalarial drug that made a lot of noise at the beginning of the pandemic as the main contender for the title of panacea for coronavirus.
It was later revealed that the effectiveness of the drug was greatly exaggerated.
However, the Russian Ministry of Health continues to recommend it as a prevention of COVID-19 infection.
Hydroxychloroquine (other names chloroquine, mefloquine) is thought to somehow inhibit the entry of viral particles into cells.
The mechanism of resistance to the propagation of viruses in the body has not yet been fully studied.
The drug has a number of contraindications.
In particular, it is toxic to the heart.
Coronavirus day-care scheme for adults
The treatment scheme of COVID-19 in adult patients will depend on the severity of the shape and individual characteristics of the patient's body, the presence of associated diseases and contraindications, drug allergy and other factors............
In any case, the treatment strategy for coronavirus is determined only by the treating physician.
It is not only useless, but also dangerous, to prescribe treatment for oneself and to drink medicines not prescribed by a specialist.
However, there is a general pattern of treatment of coronavirus patients in light and medium forms, i.e. when the patient is treated at home.
From the beginning of the disease, if symptoms such as coughing, nosebleeds and drowsiness, difficulty breathing, malaise and weakness, asthma, diarrhoea are prescribed antiviral drugs, sometimes in combination.
If the patient has bacterial infections and pneumonia, antimicrobial drugs or antibiotics are also prescribed.
If there is evidence, it is also possible to prescribe symptomatic drugs such as paracetamol and vasodilates.
What should not be taken during treatment
There are various lists of medications that are contraindicated and even dangerous in coronavirus.
The list is quite large, at least because the same drugs can be used by one patient with COVID-19, while others will be contraindicated due to individual characteristics and intolerance.
Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs such as ibuprofen, voltaren, aspirin, diclofenac, naproxen and other analgesic drugs are most commonly not recommended.
It has been suggested that these drugs may increase the body's susceptibility to the virus.
It is also recommended to avoid uncontrolled antibiotics.
Medications indicate that taking antibiotics can cause bacteria to become resistant to drugs, that is, develop "immunity" and, if needed, the drug simply ceases to work.
In any case, patients should consult the treating physician before taking medication and strictly follow his instructions.