Widespread: a new strain of coronavirus has been found in dozens of countries
WHO reports a rapid rate of spread of the "British" strain of coronavirus.
It has already been identified in 41 countries around the world, but so far there have been few cases.
Six other countries have found a mutation originating in South Africa.
In Russia, the "English woman" has not yet been found.
Mutated coronavirus continues to spread in Britain.
According to the World Health Organization (WHO) RIA News, this strain of Sars-CoV-2 has already been found in 41 countries and territories.
This situation was added to the organization on 5 January.
There is also another mutation found in the Republic of South Africa.........
It has already been recorded in six countries around the world.
The "British" carpet has been found in Greece, Cyprus, Vietnam and several U.S. states, as well as Sweden and Switzerland.
According to data from 27 December, Rospotrebnadzor did not find cases of infection with a new strain of coronavirus in the Russian Federation.
It has also been found in Denmark, the Netherlands, Australia, Italy, South Africa, Switzerland, and Germany.
"We can say with certainty that at the moment the English mutation is not present in us," said Alexander Gorelov, Deputy Director of the scientific work of the Research Institute of Epidemiology of the Russian Consumer Surveillance.
He added that the mutation "brings nothing global or scary."
The South African mutation is also more contagious, but no more dangerous.
On 14 December, British health minister Matthew Hancock announced that a new strain of coronavirus had been found in England.
"We have now identified more than a thousand cases with this variety," the official said.
He added that there was no reason for scientists to consider COVID-19 to be more severe than normal.
There is also no reason to believe that this rapid coronavirus will successfully fight the vaccine that is already being developed.
At the same time, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson stated that the strain is 70% more contagious than the "classic" version of the coronavirus.............
On 25 December, the head of the World Health Organization's Regional Office for Europe, Hans Kluge, stated that the new strain was likely to spread to young age groups.
In order to combat the British version of the infection, Russia decided to close the air link with the Kingdom until 6 January.
Also, those who arrive from the United Kingdom to Russia are required to observe a regime of self-isolation within two weeks, such a decision was made by the Chief State Medical Officer of Russia Anna Popova.
This rule will not need to be observed by the crew of aircraft carrying passengers from the United Kingdom and Northern Ireland.
All EU countries, India, China and Israel have also decided to keep British citizens out of the country for a while.
Air traffic congestion is associated with a new strain.
A sample of the coronavirus strain was sent from the United Kingdom to Russia for intensive study of its characteristics and formulation of measures to combat it.
At the end of December, the official representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Russian Federation Maria Zakharova announced this.
Information from Britain on the emergence of a mutated strain of coronavirus with a higher rate of proliferation, as the experts themselves have noted, is appealing.
Our Russian scientists, having received relevant samples, are working intensively on its study, they exchange information with foreign colleagues, representatives of the World Health Organization, "she stressed.
According to Anna Popova, head of the Russian Federal Office of Consumer Affairs, Russian test systems successfully recognize any strain of coronavirus regardless of its mutations.
https: / / m.gazeta.ru / social / 2021 / 01 / 06 / 13427804.shtml