There are rumors of a scientific institute in Uhani from which a coronavirus could have "escaped."
How much can they be trusted, and what are they actually doing there?
In the past few weeks, coronavirus infection has become a major topic in the world 's media, and there has been a lot of rumour about it.
It is said, for example, that it may have been the result of the "war virus" leak that the Chinese government created in Wuhan - there is no reason for a viral institute.
This theory cannot be dismissed: unlike the supposed healing power of sesame oil and garlic, the Uhani Institute of Virology does exist.
And they do work with dangerous infections.
Medusa explains that this conspiracy theory is not what the Uhani Institute of Virology was actually doing, and why the work of local scientists had to (though failed to) prevent the outbreak of the current infection.
All Medusa materials on coronavirus are available under a Creative Commons CC BY license.
You can print them back!
The license is not valid.
Conceptual theories have become an inevitable consequence of the huge attention paid to coronavirus.
Since the beginning of the year, when the outbreak of a new coronavirus infection became the main topic of the world's agenda, a wide variety of rumors and conspiracy theories have rapidly emerged around it.
These included, for example, invented methods of protecting against infection, such as eating a large amount of vitamin C or garlic, radically more victims that Chinese authorities allegedly hide, and bat soup as the main source of infection.
In response to these messages, the World Health Organization (WHO) launched a Twitter campaign to debunk such myths, and Facebook began actively moderating false messages.
A separate plot among these conspiracy theories relates to the alleged "combat" application of the new virus, which, according to the authors of this theory, China was working on.
Its primary source seems to have been Israeli security specialist Denis Shoham, who, in a conversation with the Washington Times editorial on the right, suggested that "some laboratories at the Uhani Institute [for Virology] were probably involved in [biological weapons] development, at least indirectly."
He did not provide any evidence of a biological weapons programme in China, but his report was picked up by some American media and bloggers.
Some of these bloggers then linked Shoham's words to the story of Chinese researcher Qiu Xiango, who worked at the Canadian National Microbiology Laboratory in Winnipeg.
In July 2019, Canadian police removed her and her husband, Kedin Cheng, from the lab as part of what was later reported as an "administrative investigation."
The Winnipeg Laboratory is one of the few in Canada to handle the most dangerous pathogenic microorganisms; it is certified to the highest level of BSL-4.
Qiu Xiango herself is a well-known Ebola specialist and has been involved in the development of the ZMapp vaccine against the virus.
Also in August 2019, after Chinese scientists were removed from the laboratory, it was reported that samples of Ebola and Nipah viruses had been transferred from the Canadian laboratory to China in March of that year.
All of this, combined with very little information about the true reasons for Qiu Xiango's expulsion and the progress of the investigation, led to a conspiracy theory that the true "homeland" of the coronavirus was Canada, and that Chinese scientists were trying to transport it to their home country, where it caused the outbreak of the infection.
The link between the current outbreak and the Qiu investigation has already been refuted by representatives of both the Canadian police and the Canadian Public Health Agency, calling such theories "disinformation."
Coronavirus is nothing like military development.
Attempts to adapt natural viruses for use as biological weapons were made in at least two countries in the 20th century: the United States and the Soviet Union.
But the theory of the military origin of the new coronavirus seems unconvincing - not even because China abandoned biological weapons as early as 1984 by acceding to the 1972 international convention, but for two more prosaic reasons.
First, the biological arsenal already contains much more dangerous and effective agents in military programs (Osp, Ebola, Marburg, and many others - more about their use in military development can be read, for example, in the book of the Soviet scientist Ken Alibek, who fled to the US).
In this context, the new coronavirus, whose relatives have long since affected only the elderly, does not look like a successful candidate for "combat viruses."
Second, according to all open sources, most patients in the "first wave" were directly related to the Ochny food market, where bats were sold.
The latter are natural carriers of many coronaviruses, including SARS-CoV and SATRS-CoV.
In one of the first studies of the infection in the medical journal Lancet, exactly half of the patients were found to be permanent employees of the Ochny product market, and a few more were visitors.
If the source of the virus were indeed a research institute rather than wild animals sold on the market, it would be difficult to explain this pattern of disease.
In Wuhan, they do study dangerous infections.
And leaks have occurred in China, too.
The source of concerns about the "military" origin of the coronavirus is clear.
Wuhan is indeed home to one of the country's largest virological centers, the Wuhan Institute of Virology of the Chinese Academy of Sciences, and it is indeed working with the most dangerous pathogens.
In January 2017, the institute's laboratories were certified to work with any existing pathogens, including Ebola and Marburg viruses.
In Russia, for example, such pathogens are only working in one place - the scientific center "Vector" near Novosibirsk.
The Uhani Institute of Virology became the first place to be certified for BSL-4 biosafety in mainland China.
According to Nature, the Chinese government plans to build another 5-7 such laboratories by 2025.
Today, apart from the centre in Uhani, only the Harbin Veterinary Research Institute operates with the same level of admission.
Although the Wuhan Institute of Virology 's laboratory modernization and certification program ended in 2017, its beginnings can be traced back to the SARS outbreak that occurred at the beginning of the last decade.........
The program was a response to a series of SARS virus leaks, which severely damaged the international reputation of Chinese researchers.
Well-known coronavirus specialists work in Uhani, and they have long warned of the possibility of a new epidemic
An important part of the modernization programme for Chinese laboratories, in addition to the actual construction of new buildings and the renovation of facilities, has been the training programme for Chinese specialists in Western laboratories working to the highest safety standards.
Western specialists often visited Wuhan.
Many of the staff of the Institute of Virology have been trained in Lyon, where one of the laboratories certified to the BSL-4 standard is located.
With such close international cooperation, it is unlikely that secret military developments could be conducted at the Chinese Institute.
It is also one of the most important centres for SARS research in China and the world.
Shih Zhenli, a virologist at the Institute, has discovered that bats are the natural reservoir of the SARS virus.
For nearly 18 years, a group of researchers led by her has been researching such coronaviruses, their evolution and natural distribution.
And it was Shi Zhenli's group that was the first to detect the new virus 2019-nCoV in patients with Uhani disease.
The fact that the outbreak of a new virus occurred in the very city where the main SARS research center is located may seem like an incredible coincidence - not to mention that the study of animals and the viruses that infect them is somehow tied to their habitat.
Scientists are not very different from hunters, who focus their work primarily on local fauna and sell it in local markets.
And if you look at what her colleagues wrote about bats before the outbreak, the history of the new outbreak seems even less random.
After spending many years studying bats and searching for natural reservoirs of coronaviruses, scientists at the Ochny Laboratory as early as 2017 warned that transmission of infection to humans is not only possible, but also likely.
And it cannot be said that these works have gone unnoticed - they have been the subject of attention not only by narrow specialists, but also by scientific reviewers of Nature.
Chinese scientists' predictions seem to have come true - but they are unlikely to be pleased.
A great deal of research has been done since the last outbreak, but it does not seem to have changed anything.
Alexander Ershov