The genetic mutation of SARS-CoV-2 D614G made it 8 times stronger
The D614G mutation in the SARS-CoV-2 protein, which is now ubiquitous, increases the virus's ability to infect human cells.
The SARS-CoV-2 mutation, one of several genetic mutations in related variants that have appeared in the United Kingdom, South Africa, and Brazil, makes the virus up to eight times more contagious to human cells than the original virus originated in China, according to a study published in eLife magazine.
A study by scientists from New York University, the New York Genome Center, and Mount Sinai confirms the findings that the D614G mutation makes SARS-CoV-2 more transmissible.
"In the few months since we first conducted this study, the importance of the D614G mutation has increased: the mutation has reached almost universal distribution and is included in all current worrying options," said Neville Sanjana, an associate professor of biology at New York University, an assistant professor of neuroscience and physiology at the Grossman School of Medicine at New York University and a principal lecturer at the New York Genome Center.
Confirming that the mutation leads to greater transferability may help partially explain why the virus has spread so rapidly over the past year.
The D614G mutation in the SARS-CoV-2 patch protein, commonly referred to as "variant G," probably originated in early 2020 and is now the most common and dominant form of SARS-CoV-2 virus in the United States.
and in many countries around the world.
With the spread of multiple mutations, researchers are working to understand the functional significance of these mutations and whether they actually alter the virulence or mortality of the virus.
In this study, scientists introduced a virus with mutation D614G into human lung, liver and colon cells.
They also introduced a version of the "wild type" coronavirus - a version of the mutant-free virus found early in the pandemic - into the same cell types for comparison.
They found that the D614G version increased the virus's transduction or transmissibility to eight times that of the original virus.
Researchers have also found that a spike protein mutation has made the virus more resistant to splitting or splitting by other proteins.
This provides a possible mechanism to increase the ability of the option to infect cells, as a more stable option results in a higher percentage of the spike protein in the virus.