Kovidou all ages are obedient
About a virus that has become more contagious and affects both the elderly and the young.
In the year of communication with COVID-19, we had a little time to study this virus, but it didn 't waste time either - it was modified and adapted.
If it used to be thought that little children don 't get the virus, and young people take it as a little bit of a nap, now everything has changed - everybody gets sick, gets infected and gets infected.
Antibody protective titre
It has been observed that children have a less intense immune response to the virus than adults.
SARS-CoV-2 is known to cause severe damage not only to the body itself, but also to the immune system, which begins to damage the body's own organs and tissues.
Children are more likely to catch other respiratory viruses and catch cold.
It 's the kind of stuffy age that creates a base for immunity.
There is competition between these agents and coronavirus for the upper respiratory tract, and this may reduce the viral load of SARS-CoV-2 because it fails to start its full-program reproduction.
During this period, children receive a great deal of vaccines and their immune system is active, antibodies are produced against all infections, especially viral ones - poliomyelitis, measles, rubella and parotitis, "explains the immunologist of the highest category, Alexander Rutynskaya.
- So there's a protective titre antibody.
If the mother kept to the vaccination schedule, she gave the baby protection, the body resists viruses.
And while the worm is away, the immune system recognizes - something alien has emerged - and starts to produce antibodies against it.
This is the case, for example, in..
In addition, children have relatively healthier and more elastic blood vessels.
This significantly reduces the risk of severe complications from COVID-19, which, as is already known, has a severe impact on microscopic vessels.
Recently, we have seen more severe cases of COVID-19 in children 14-18 years old and in infants up to one year old.
The disease is very severe in young mothers who live with their babies.
Adult adolescents are infected
However, coronavirus infection is not as harmless to children as it seemed from the beginning.
During the period of the pandemic, about 13,000 people were affected in Moldova.
Children.
Like adults, it causes pneumonia of various forms of severity.
Severe post-mortem conditions are recorded.
COVID-19 is very dangerous for children with associated diseases such as obesity, cardiovascular disease, diabetes mellitus, asthma, chronic hepatitis, bronchitis, etc.
- Children and adolescents are sent to his hospital with suspicion of fraud.
Ignatenko.
If the diagnosis is confirmed, they are transferred to us, "says the director of the Municipal Children's Clinical Infections Hospital, doctor of medical science, assistant professor, physician-infectionist Lyudmila Byrka...........
- Recently, we have seen more severe cases of COVID-19, especially in children 14-18 years old and infants up to one year old.
The disease is very severe in young mothers who live with their babies.
We have about 100 people with coronavirus infection, half of them with pneumonia.
The virus has become more contagious: if one family member gets sick, 100% of the others get sick.
According to the data, 1,218 children and 657 adults passed through our institution in the year before 1 March.
Of the total number of children aged 10-18, 32 per cent were children, while the youngest school age (7-10 years) was 16 per cent (they are less sick but are vectors).
According to research, older children are the first to become sick in the family and then infect parents, grandparents and grandparents.
Lyudmila Byrka emphasizes that we should teach children social responsibility, they should be united in fighting the virus.
Unfortunately, we do not see the sympathy of young people towards adults with related diseases.
Intergenerational relationships are being disrupted.
Perhaps one of the reasons is migration..
Extremism
By the way, boys and girls who are confident of their vulnerability are not as well protected from coronavirus infection as they think.
- If it was previously thought that the young generation rarely gets COVID-19, now the situation has changed, "confirmed Dr. Adrian Bely, head of the department of clinical anaesthesiology and intensive care of the Institute of Emergency Medical Assistance.
- The disease has become much milder, its manifestations have become more complex and aggressive.
Young people should reconsider their views on the situation, accept the fact that the virus exists and is dangerous to all.
Therefore, protective masks, social distance and other anti-epidemiological measures are not abolished.
Plus, vaccination is an important aspect.
We are not doing very well with vaccination.
Children and adolescents under the age of 18 are not vaccinated at all, just vaccines for this age group have not yet been invented or, more precisely, tested.
But even those who have reached the age of majority are very cautious about this procedure.
According to a social survey conducted by UReport, only 26% of young people in Moldova are ready to be vaccinated.
Forty-three per cent would not have taken the vaccine, and 30 per cent have not yet decided on immunization.
The majority of those who do not want to be infected explain this by not believing in the efficacy and safety of the drug.
They say they don 't have enough information about the vaccine.
- It's important to educate the entire population.
In Moldova we conducted a study on the presence of antibodies in people who have passed COVID-19 but have no symptoms of the disease, "explains the chief researcher of the National Agency for Public Health Dr. Habilitat of Medical Sciences, Professor Victoria Bukova.
- As a result, antibodies have been found in far more people than there have been obvious diseases.
So we have a lot of coronavirus carriers that don 't get sick themselves, but they' re contagious.
And it 's these people that are a lot of young people who are extreme-minded and don' t respect quarantine.
In general, we 're a long way from saying that we' re going to beat COVID-19 in all its variants.
Seasonal vaccines for SARS-CoV-2 may be available in the foreseeable future.
Currently, Moldova lacks vaccines even to immunize all health-care workers at risk.
So we wait, we take care of ourselves, children and each other.
Compliance with basic quarantine measures, awareness and social responsibility will help us to survive the difficult coronavirus period without panic.
Opinion
Kill the virus
Boris Ipati, senior urologist:
- In the fight against COVID-19 we did not use all the possibilities, not all the means of protection.
We could not close kindergartens, schools and other public institutions.
COVID-19 is known to be an airborne droplet infection that is transmitted from the patient to the healthy.
The concentration of an agent in the air is important.
It has been shown that in hospitals, especially in intensive care units, the concentration of viruses in the air is thousands of times higher than in the street.
The incidence among health workers is therefore extremely high, sometimes reaching 10 per cent of the number of cases.
The reason for this is the low level of protection in contact with patients................
Through various protection and prevention measures, we have forgotten one important tool - microbicides that kill viruses, microbes and fungi.
They operate on the principle of well-known bactericidal quartz lamps, which generate ultraviolet radiation and contribute to ozone depletion, but are used in the absence of humans because they destroy the mucous eye and cause skin burns in prolonged exposure.
If you put a quartz lamp and a fan that drives the air through the device, we get a recycler.
This device kills 99.9 percent of the viruses and bacteria present.
The remaining 0.1 per cent are in fact already weakened and few virulent agents.
Even if the microbicide recycler is contaminated, the disease will take a light or asymptomatic form - an effect similar to that of a vaccine.
These unique devices can be used even in public transport.
Examples from neighbouring countries (Ukraine, Belarus, Russian Federation) show that such devices can be assembled in a short time.
Any mechanical shop can master their production.
Quartz lamps and fans can be purchased in large quantities, and the construction of a tin casing is not difficult.
The cost of this machine is about a thousand lei. It can be installed in every class.
The circulator is not a panacea and does not eliminate the use of protective masks, periodic use of quartz lamps, disinfection, compliance with the feeding regime and other measures, but their combination will help to create maximum protection.
Natalia Ustugova