Around the "father of the coronavirus" from the United States, there was a conspiracy theory.
Author: Kris Snibbe.
Photo: ru.wikipedia.org
This story fits well into the conspiracy theories that suggest that there is evil intent - whether American or Chinese - in creating and spreading a coronavirus around the planet.
But is it?
Let's try to figure it out.
The name of the 60-year-old chemist Charles Liber is well known in the scientific world.
His work focuses on nanochemistry and physical chemistry.
He is known for his contributions to the synthesis, assembly and characterization of nanoscale materials and devices, and the application of nanoelectronic devices in biology.
He was a professor at Harvard University.
Department of Chemistry and Chemical Biology.
The rate of cytokinesis among chemists is very high.
He has been described as the leading expert of the decade by authoritative organizations.
And behind this scientific beacon at the end of January this year, FBI agents suddenly arrive, and then all over the world, the ironclad progress of the Wuhan coronavirus is set in motion.
China's "Thousand Talents" program, which the US viewed with suspicion as a threat to national security, is relevant to the history of detention.
The programme was established by the Chinese Government to pay foreign scientists for access to their research.
And if you recall that the American professor was a foreign member of the Chinese Academy of Sciences and had interests in one of the institutions in Huan, for conspiracy theorists, combining one circumstance with another quickly gave the necessary amount: the scientist was arrested for coronavirus.
Why is no one talking about Charles Lieber?
Arrested for links to Wuhan and coronavirus - and not even a shocha in the media. "
Reports of this kind have become a powerful stream on the web.
Factchek.org, a website specializing in checking social media rumors, analyzed information about Dr. Libera and coronavirus.
So here are the conclusions.
We have received more than a dozen questions about the credibility of social media posts and memes telling the story of Charles Lieber, a prominent Harvard scholar who, on 28 January, was accused by the Justice Department of repeatedly making false statements about his relationship with China.
The posts, some of which have been posted more than 6,500 times on Facebook and are accompanied by a photograph of Liber, contain a series of false statements that a Harvard scientist is linked to the COVID-19 outbreak that began in Wuhan, China, in late 2019. "
An example of such a report in the social media goes on to quote: "If you missed it, yesterday federal agents arrested Dr. Charles Lieber, the head of the Department of Chemistry and Chemical Biology at Harvard University, for lying to the Defense Department about a secret monthly payment of $50,000 paid by China and receiving millions more to help set up a chemical, biological" research "laboratory in China.
Two Chinese "students" were also arrested, one of whom was actually a lieutenant in the Chinese Army, and the other was captured at Logan Airport (East Boston - "MK") when he attempted to board a flight to China - smuggling 21 bottles of "sensitive biological samples" according to FBI data.
Oh, I almost forgot.
What about the research lab that a good professor helped create?
It is located at Wuhan University of Technology.
Wuhan in China is the epicentre of a potentially global pandemic known as the Coronavirus, which rapidly spreads and kills people.
It's an international spy novel by Steven Kuntz that takes place in real life, and it barely made the news. "
In analyzing this message, Factchek.org acknowledges: Every single statement taken in this post corresponds to a great deal of reality.
But the main conclusion - that Professor Lieber may be working with two students, somehow related to the new coronavirus - is incorrect: "In fact, neither Lieber nor the other two individuals, each of whom has been charged in separate cases for assisting the People's Republic of China, have any known connection with the new virus.
And... there is no evidence that a new coronavirus was developed in the laboratory. "
This is how the story of Charles Liber is told by the whistle-blowers.
On 28 January, the Ministry of Justice reported the charges against Liber and two Chinese citizens in one press release.
However, as stated in the release's title, the three cases are "separate."
As head of the Department of Chemistry and Chemical Biology at Harvard, Lieber is the most famous of the three.
According to the claim, Liber lied to both the Ministry of Defense and the National Institutes of Health about his association with Wuhan Technological University (WUT), and his participation in China's "Thousand Talents Plan," a program aimed at attracting Chinese expats and foreign scientists to China.
Liber also allegedly failed to declare the large sums of money he received from the Chinese government, including more than 1.5 million.
$50,000 per month, plus living expenses for his WUT work.
In the above-mentioned post, most of this is correctly represented, but it is conjectured that Libera's laboratory in China may have been engaged in illegal research.
There is no evidence that this is true.
According to the indictment, Libera's three-year contract with Thousand Talents required him to perform typical functions of academic scientists, such as publishing in leading journals, advising students and organizing conferences.
The problem for the investigation is not that Liber acted as a spy, but that in the future he might be vulnerable to pressure from China.
"It was the amount of money that caught our attention," Andrew Lelling, one of the prosecutors running the case, told Science.
In fact, there is nothing wrong with Lieber participating in the Chinese program, but he needed to report these relationships and funds to Harvard and when receiving grants from US agencies.
(...) Liber was not charged with transferring intellectual property to the Chinese.
A social media report says that Liber is somehow connected to the new coronavirus because the Chinese university he worked with was in Wuhan, where the COVID-19 outbreak started.
But there is no evidence that this is not just a coincidence.
When we were asked about the relationship between Liber and the new coronavirus, a representative of the Ministry of Justice told us in an e-mail: "The Ministry of Justice has not made such accusations."
Liber is a nanotechnology scientist who studies and develops extremely small materials on a nanometer scale.
(The nanometer is one billionth of a metre; the DNA strand thickness is about 2.5 nanometers.)
Although his recent work has focused on developing new ways of using nanoprobes in cells, he is neither a biologist nor an expert on viruses.
Wuhan University of Technology also does not deal with viruses.
It is primarily an engineering school focused on subjects such as materials science, transport and logistics.
Liber is also accused of providing false information at the Ministry of Defence in 2018 and at the National Institute of Health in January 2019, well before the COVID-19 outbreak at the end of last year.
The timing of the announced charges simply coincides with the news of the outbreak. "
It deals separately with Factchek.org and two other cases, which were mentioned together with the Liber case.
None of the other cases reported by the Ministry of Justice on 28 January is related to the new coronavirus either.
In one of them, Yanqing Ye, a 29-year-old student who attended Boston University from October 2017 to April 2019, admitted to being a lieutenant in the Chinese army.
She allegedly lied about her current position in the army to obtain a visa, while in the United States researching American military projects and collecting online information about two professors working in computer security and intellectual robotics.
He was charged with four counts, including visa fraud, false testimony, acting as a foreign government agent and conspiracy.
As with Liber, Ye, who is now in China, has no experience in virology.
The only paper he published as a researcher at the Center for Polymer Studies at Boston University was on the computational method of data analysis; it had nothing to do with viruses.
Another case concerns Daoson Zheng, a 30-year-old Chinese national who was conducting cancer research at the Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center at Harvard and tried to smuggle 21 bottles of biological samples out of the country.
On 9 December 2019, Zheng allegedly attempted to fly to Beijing with bubbles hidden in his sock in his luggage.
However, federal agents at Logan Airport in Boston stopped him, and Zheng eventually admitted that he had stolen the bottles from Beth Israel's lab.
He told the officers that he planned to continue studying the samples in his own laboratory in China, attributing the results to himself and publishing them under his own name.
Zhen was charged with smuggling goods from the United States and giving false testimony to customs and border officials.
According to the Ministry of Justice, he remains in detention.
A social media report ("MK") claims that Zheng smuggled 21 bottles of "sensitive biological samples," but the word "sensitive" does not appear in the indictment or FBI agent's affidavit.
The affidavit states that the bottles contained brown liquid and that, according to Zheng, he stole eight of the bottles from the laboratory and then attempted to reproduce the remaining 11 without the knowledge of Beth Israel.
Beth Israel Laboratory, where Zheng worked, is engaged in fundamental research on cancer and studies, for example, the molecular details of how cancer cells can overcome normal cell cycle tests to produce tumors. "
"Strangely enough," Factchek.org summarizes the hearing, "each of these stories received significant coverage in the news, including detailed coverage in news publications on Liber science and an article in the New York Times about Daosong Zheng's work at the airport.
Of course, there was no mention of coronavirus in the news, because there is no valid link to it. "
Convincing?
Quite.
But it is unlikely that exposing rumours - like any other - will convince proponents of conspiracy theories.
At best, they would think that the people who did the billing didn 't see anything very important, and so they' re wrong........
At worst, they'll say they're involved in the conspiracy themselves.