Are lemon tea, ginger in shock doses, vitamins D and C protected from coronavirus?
Doctors responsible
What dosages can be taken and why tea should be warm (not hot)
In many "folk" means, there is no research on how they affect the body precisely during coronavirus infection.
Many people drink a lot of warm and hot liquids (such as tea with honey, lemon and ginger) to prevent coronavirus infection, as well as high doses of vitamins D and C.
Does that make any sense?
Or, on the contrary, can vitamin doses hurt the body?
The NHS medical reviewer Maria Tishchenko talked to doctors about this.
What medications are really worth drinking, do you need to take tests before doing so, and why is it good to drink warm?
We understand each other.
Will people 's resources help prevent COVID-19
Andrey Pozdnyakov, head doctor of INVITRO-Siberia Ltd., explains that there is no evidence for the so-called popular means of preventing coronavirus infection and other types of ORVI, and it is unlikely that it will appear in the foreseeable future, because it is not possible to analyse information about people who have not been ill:
- They are not included in any statistics, as they cannot be recorded at all.
In theory, any means of more or less natural enhancement of immunity can reduce the risk of developing ORVI, including COVID-19.
How effective these methods are is a big question.
Pharmacological immunostimulants should be treated with caution: incorrect use of this category of drugs can, on the contrary, make the process difficult in the case of disease.
Why it is important to drink warm drinks during coronavirus
Julia Podaneva, a therapist at Avicenna Medical Center, is convinced that tea with ginger and lemon is always useful in most cases, and not only during a pandemic, because it contains micronutrients and vitamin C that are useful for the body.
- Doctors recommend taking a large volume of liquid to reduce intoxication and eliminate metabolic products.
A warm drink, not cold or hot, is desirable to avoid irritation of the back of the larynx.
Just tea or with jam, raspberry, honey, warm milk, dried fruit compost, the doctor advises.
Do you need to take vitamins D and C when cooking?
Julia Podaneva says that D, C and zinc are now popular among vitamins:
- This is also justified in the context of the spread of coronavirus infection, because the absence of the mentioned elements increases the duration of the disease and the recovery period lengthens.
This vitamin is needed to make the person better off.
Patients often drink them in increased doses.
Yulia Podaneva believes that overdoses of vitamin D and C are unlikely because the body usually lacks these elements and patients still drink moderate therapeutic doses.
Overdoses are more common in group B vitamins.
- Before taking vitamin D to prevent ARV and other infections, take a blood vitamin D or Ca test.
And depending on the result, you can pick up the dose, "recommends infectionist Dmitry Kapustin.
The doctor warns that uncontrolled intake of vitamin D in large doses leads to an overdose with possible severe consequences, especially in the elderly.
This can occur in the chain - increase in the level of calcium in the blood, calcification (deposition of calcium salts) of organs and tissues, especially vessels, lungs, and kidney failure.
What the Vitamin Studies Say
- There are many publications and studies that confirm that respiratory infections, particularly influenza and COVID-19, are more severe in patients with reduced levels of vitamin D in their blood.
Vitamin D deficiency is a predisposing factor in the development of ARV, influenza and new coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) infection.
This vitamin stimulates the production of antimicrobial proteins in mucous membranes of the upper respiratory tract, thus increasing protection against viruses and bacteria, "says Dmitry Kapustin.
Varvara Veretiuk, a therapist at the family medicine center "Zdravica," says that research is still under way on vitamin C: whether it will help to avoid infection, for example, in contact with infected people:
- No encouraging data yet.
I would like to remind you that vitamin C is present in vegetables and fruits, so it is important to eat in a balanced way.
High doses of vitamin C can increase the risk of kidney stones, and in people with high acidity can exacerbate stomach inflammation.
Too good is bad, so excessive dosages are not exactly worth using.
A few days can be taken, but not weeks or tens of grams.
As for vitamin D, she believes that although it has no proven antiviral properties, it is recommended for all Siberian residents to prevent its deficiency year-round.
- The preventive dose should therefore be continued.
Studies on the effects of higher doses of coronavirus infection are still under way, there is no news yet, says Varvara Veretiuk and recalls that everything else should be prescribed by a doctor.
In the past, Novosibirsk doctors have explained why antibiotics should not be taken in cases of coronavirus infection, and in which cases it is necessary to do so.
Andrei Pozdnyakov - Candidate of Medical Sciences, infectionist, chief physician of Invitro-Siberia Ltd.
Yulia Podaneva is a physician at the medical center "Avicenna," with 17 years of service.
Varvara Veretiuk - therapist of the family medicine center "Zdravica," 14 years of service.
Dmitri Kapustin is an infectious doctor.
Assistant to the Department of Infectious Diseases, Head of Unit of the Centre for the Prevention and Control of AIDS, GBUZ, NSO GICB No. 1.
Chief freelance specialist on HIV testing and treatment in Novosibirsk Oblast.
Doctor of the Year - 2020: nomination - "Work in Extreme Conditions."