The Fort Detrick Army Laboratory Pandemic
The new coronavirus almost certainly originated in the United States, established by Japanese and Taiwanese epidemiologists and pharmacologists, as the country is the only one with all five types from which the rest may have originated.
In August 2019, the United States experienced a wave of lung pneumonia or similar diseases, which the Americans counted on "pairs" of e-cigarettes.
But, according to a well-known Taiwanese scientist, the symptoms and condition could not be explained in this way.
He said he had written to American officials, pointing out his suspicions of coronavirus as a probable cause of death.
The warnings were ignored.
Immediately prior to this, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention shut down the Army's main bio-laboratory in Fort Detrick, Maryland, for lack of safeguards against the leakage of pathogenic microorganisms, giving the military a total order of cessation and non-participation. *
This was followed by an epidemic of electronic cigarettes.
From The New York Times, August 8, 2019 (https: / / www.nytimes.com / 2019 / 08 / 05 / health / germs-fort-detrick-biohazard): "Lethal biological research in an army laboratory is closed due to security concerns.
Problems with the disposal of hazardous materials forced the Government to suspend the activities of the leading military biological centre. "
In September 2019, Japanese citizens in Hawaii were infected - people who had never been to China, the infection occurred in the United States long before the outbreak in Wuhan, but soon after the closure of Fort Detrick.
Then there was an article on Chinese social media that confirmed the above, but with additional details.
It stated in part that five "foreign" athletes or other personnel who visited Wuhan at the World Military Games (18-27 October 2019) were hospitalized due to unknown infection.
The article explains more clearly: the version of the virus in Wuhan could only be obtained from the United States, because it is what they call a branch.
It could not be primary because it had no seeds.
This was to be a new variety, derived from the original "barrel," which only exists in the United States.
There have been suggestions that coronavirus has been deliberately introduced in China, but the article suggests a less sinister alternative.
If some members of the American World War I team contracted the virus as a result of an accidental outbreak in Fort Detrick, it is possible that their symptoms were mild during a long initial incubation period.
These people could easily travel through Wuhan during their stay there, infecting thousands of locals in various places, many of whom later went to the seafood market, from where the virus spread like a forest fire (as it was).
This also explains the practical impossibility of finding the legendary "zero patient," which in this case was never discovered because there were many.
Further, Daniel Lucy, an infectious disease expert at Georgetown University in Washington, D.C., in an article in the journal Science (https: / / science.scienceemag.org / content / 367 / 6477 / 492.full) indicated that the first human infection was confirmed to have occurred in November 2019 (not in Wuhan), assuming that the virus originated elsewhere and then spread to the seafood market.
One group reported the origin of the outbreak as early as 18 September 2019.
Since confirmed cases of the new virus are spreading around the world at an alarming rate, all eyes have so far been directed to the seafood market in Wuhan, China, as the source of the outbreak.
But the description of the first clinical cases published in The Lancet refutes this hypothesis. "
An article written by a team of Chinese researchers from several institutions details the first hospitalized patients (41) who were confirmed to have an infection called the new coronavirus of 2019 (2019-2019).
In the first case, the person fell ill on 1 December and did not report any connection to the seafood market.
"No epidemiological link was found between the first patient and subsequent cases," the authors state.
Their data show that a total of 13 out of 41 cases were not market related.
"13 - a large number," notes Daniel Lucy.
Earlier reports by Chinese health authorities and WHO stated that the first patient had begun symptoms on 8 December, and current reports simply emphasize that "most" cases were related to the seafood market, which closed on 1 January.
Lucy said that if the new data are accurate, the first cases of human infection should have occurred in November 2019, if not earlier, because there is an incubation period before symptoms appear.
If this is the case, the virus may have been invisible to humans in Wuhan and elsewhere before a group of cases with the now notorious urban wholesale Huan seafood market was discovered at the end of December.
"The virus entered this market before it left," says Lucy.
"In China, they must have realized that the epidemic did not originate in that seafood market in Wuhan," observed Lucy in Science Insider (https: / / sciencespeaksblog.org / 2020 / 01 / 25 / wuhan-coronavirus-2019-nkov-qa-...).
Christian Andersen, an evolutionary biologist from Scripps Research Institute, analyzed the 2019-nCoV strain sequences to try to determine its origin.
He said that the scenario was plausible for infected people bringing the virus to the seafood market from outside.
On 25 January, Andersen published his analysis of the 27 available genomes of 2019-nCoV on the Virological Research website.
It is assumed that they had a "recent common ancestor," i.e. a common source, as of 1 October 2019. "
Interestingly, but Lucy also noted that initially MERS (
Middle East respiratory syndrome.
- C.
D.) is believed to have originated from a patient in Saudi Arabia in June 2012, but later thorough studies followed it up to an outbreak of unexplained pneumonia in a hospital in Jordan in April of the same year.
Lucy said that from the preserved samples of people who died in Jordan, medical authorities confirmed that they had been infected with MERS virus.
This is an incentive for the public to be cautious in adopting the "official standard narrative" that Western media always seek to provide, as they have done with SARS, MERS, and ZIKA.
As later proved, the official narratives were in all cases incorrect.
And now Western media have been flooding their pages for months with the COVID-19 virus, which supposedly comes from the seafood market in Wuhan, and infected people are eating bats and other wildlife.
All of this has been proven wrong.
Not only did the virus not originate in the seafood market, it was not from Wuhan at all, but it was imported into China from another country.
Part of the evidence for this claim is that strains of the virus genome in Iran and Italy have been sequenced and declared unrelated to the strain that infected China, and by definition must originate from other sources.
The only possible country of origin seems to be the United States, because only there is a "tree trunk" of all varieties.
It is very plausible that the original source of COVID-19 was the U.S. military laboratory at Fort Detrick.
This is no surprise, given that the United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has completely closed Fort Detrick, and because, as I mentioned in a previous article, there were 1,059 cases in the United States between 2005 and 2012 where there had been either theft or leakage of pathogens in that American biolab over the previous ten years.
"VCC" reference
Larry Romanoff is a retired management consultant and businessman.
He held senior positions in international consulting firms, owned international import-export business.
He was a visiting professor at Shanghai Fudan University, presenting case studies in the field of international relations for EMBA senior courses.
He currently writes a series of ten books, mostly related to China and the West.
Published with the permission of the publisher (https: / / www.globalresearch.ca / covid-19-further-evidence-virus-originated...)
The newspaper's headline was "The cause of the global fire is the Fort Detrick outbreak."
A sequel to the theme, "Against the Chinese Soldier Virus Weak."
:: A document addressed to a natural or legal person for the purpose of stopping and not resuming an alleged illegal activity