Chinese coronavirus is a hybrid of snake and mouse viruses.
Chinese scientists have found the closest ancestors of the new coronavirus.
They found bats and snakes.
It appears that they formed a hybrid in the snake, which acquired a new surface protein and was able to infect human cells.
Research published in the journal
The new coronavirus 2019-nCoV from China was discussed in early January 2020, although the first cases appeared in the clinics of Wuhan city as early as mid-December.
The virus causes acute pneumonia and is a close relative of SARS, whose epidemic also started in China at the time.
At the time of publication of this news, 17 victims of the new pneumonia are already known.
It has also become clear that 2019-nCoV is transmitted between humans, and new cases have been reported outside China, including Thailand, Japan, and the United States.
The Chinese authorities shut down Wuhan for departure and temporarily suspended public transport.
The source of the infection was referred to by the authorities as the seafood market in Wuhan, with which the first cases were associated.
In addition to seafood, sheep, rabbits, and snakes were also sold.
Since many of the previous viruses (including Ebola and SARS) were derived from bats, scientists have suggested that some of the animals sold on the ear market became the intermediate stage for coronavirus between bats and humans.
A group of Chinese scientists led by Xingguang Li of Wuhan University of Bioengineering tried to clarify the origin of the new coronavirus.
To this end, they collected five truncated genomes of 2019-nCoV and compared them to 271 known coronaviruses from different hosts (humans and animals) from around the world.
By building a phylogenetic tree of coronaviruses, researchers found that the new viruses were monophyletic, that is, descended from a single common ancestor, and this happened about two years ago.
Researchers have also noted that 2019-nCoV is particularly different from its relatives at one site in the genome, where it is thought to have been recombined between coronavirus and another virus.
This part of the genome encodes the surface glycoprotein, a protein with carbohydrate components, by which the virus attaches to the receptor on the cell surface before penetrating inside.
To determine from whom the bat virus could derive a portion of the genome, scientists compared the frequency of use of synonymic codons in different coronaviruses that infect surfers, hedgehogs, birds, bats, humans, and other hosts.
Because the genetic code is excessive, most amino acids can be encoded in several ways, and usually an organism has a "preferred" way.
The alien fragment in the 2019-nCoV genome was found to be closest to the Chinese snake coronavirus by its "preferences."
Chinese scientists thus put forward their own version of the story: bats infected snakes with their coronavirus, and two viruses exchanged sites in their bodies.
As a result, the hybrid virus 2019-nCoV was born about two years ago and reached humans by December 2019.
Two species of snakes are considered to be the most likely hosts: the southern Chinese multicolored crab and the Chinese cobra.
This theory is supported by the fact that both were sold in the Ochny seafood market.
Earlier, scientists discovered that it was bats that infected Chinese pigs with deadly diarrhea and introduced a new species of ebolavirus to Indian hunters.
And what else we know and what we expect from the new coronavirus, read in our text "With the new coronavirus."