Coronavirus was in Italy as early as September 2019.
So when did he show up?
Coronavirus in Italy.
Italian oncologists found antibodies to coronavirus in blood tests taken in September 2019.
Does this mean that China's Wuhan was not the birthplace of the pandemic?
SARS-CoV-2 is believed to have originated in China about a year ago.
The Chinese newspaper South China Morning Post reported that a "zero patient" with COVID-19 was registered in Wuhan on November 17, 2019.
The World Health Organization (WHO), in turn, stated that the first confirmed case of coronavirus was on 8 December.
However, according to the latest data, coronavirus already existed in September 2019 - not in China, but in Italy, which was badly affected by the first wave of the pandemic.
The discovery was made during a study not directly related to coronavirus.
His goal was an early diagnosis of lung cancer.
However, since testing was conducted during the spring pandemic, and questions about the origin of coronavirus and its associated COVID-19 disease were much greater than the answers at the time, doctors examined more closely blood samples collected between September 2019 and February 2020.
We analyzed and studied specific antibodies associated with the emergence of coronavirus in the blood samples of 959 people who were screened for lung tumors between September 2019 and March 2020.
Antibodies on SARS-CoV-2 RBD were found in 111 people out of 959 (11.6%), "says a report by the Institute of Oncology of Milan and the University of Siena.
Genetic analysis revealed three types of new coronavirus
The unexpected discovery caused confusion among oncology researchers.
However, the geneticist Peter Forster was not surprised.
In contrast, the results of the study confirm the findings of a phylogenetic analysis of coronavirus conducted by a team of scientists led by Forster.
The results were published as early as April in the American journal Proceedings of the National Academy of Science (PNAS).
"Based on the data known at the time, and given the rate of mutation of the virus, we assumed that the spread of SARS-CoV-2 should have occurred from mid-September to December 2019," Forster said.
In their study, scientists used the genomes of a new type of coronavirus collected from December 2019 to March 2020.
Based on the SARS-CoV-2 mutations, they replicated the coronavirus family tree and isolated three strains: A, B, and C.
The purpose of the researchers was to determine which strain originated first and to determine the geographic location of the SARS-CoV-2 virus.
Scientists found that all three types were present in China, but to varying degrees.
Variant B was most common in Wuhan, China, which is now considered a source of the pandemic.
Type A was mainly distributed to patients from North America and Australia.
Type C, in turn, has been most common in Singapore, Japan and Taiwan.
"Among those infected with this strain was also an Italian resident, apparently a tourist," recalls a geneticist.
SARS-CoV-2 didn't appear in Wuhan?
Where?
Because the most likely carrier of SARS was a bat, Peter Forster's team compared the three mutated variants to bat coronavirus.
To their surprise, the most genetically close to the original coronavirus was the type A virus.
Type B is a mutated variant of type A and type C is the result of type B mutations. "So I doubt that was," says Peter.
Rather, the research indicates that the primary outbreak was in Guangdong Province in southeastern China.
"From there, half of all samples of the virus were type A, in addition to being the site of large bat populations, and finally, coronavirus outbreaks were also recorded in Guangdong," explains the scientist.
He added, however, that it was necessary to take into account the fact that scientists were able to study only a limited number of samples at the beginning of the year, since the number of infected persons was not very high at that time.
Coronavirus was in Italy earlier than expected
A study by Italian scientists, which found that the first asymptomatic patients with SARS-CoV-2 were in Italy as early as September 2019, was not the only evidence that coronavirus appeared in Europe as early as last year, before the official outbreak of the pandemic.
An analysis of wastewater in northern Italy, released in June, also indicated that coronavirus was circulating in the country as early as the end of 2019.
However, the first case of an Italian resident who had not previously been in China was not officially documented until February 2020.
Since then, the virus has spread rapidly across the country: in the first wave of the pandemic, the number of cases in Italy exceeded 1.2 million, and nearly 46,500 people died from SARS-CoV-2.
Viruses don't kill their host.
Geneticist Peter Forster explains this sudden outbreak of infection as a mutation of the type B virus, resulting in its more aggressive type: B-D614G.
This strain of the virus attracted the attention of a group of American scientists led by biologist Bette Corber.
They compared the clinical data of patients infected with D614G coronavirus with those infected with other types of SARS-CoV-2.
"In patients infected with the new mutant, the viral load in the lungs was much higher," Forster says.
These patients were also more contagious, in other words, the virus could spread much faster and more efficiently. "
Soon, the most "successful" version of the virus was 97% of other types of SARS-CoV-2.
To date, more than 55 million people worldwide are infected.
Gene Forster suggests that the lethality and danger of a mutated variant decreases over time.
"Once the virus is established in the population, an immune response occurs, and the risk of the pathogen decreases," he explains.
The virus does not kill its host, as the death of the host also leads to the death of the pathogen.
So the ideal option for a virus - to reduce its lethality, but at the same time increase its infectivity - is to be able to infect.
"But first the new virus maximizes its infectivity at any cost, without considering anything," says the scientist.
It is this feature of the pathogen that explains the Italian spring tragedy.