In the United States, COVID-19 was found earlier than it was found in China.
Medical personnel took the woman to a hospital in Manhattan, New York.
Moscow, 2 Dec - RIA News.
A retrospective study of blood samples collected from U.S. residents in December 2019 revealed that some of them had COVID-19 even before the new virus was announced in China.
Journal of Clinical Infectious Diseases.
Officials in China first reported mysterious cases of pneumonia in Wuhan, which turned out to be caused by a new coronavirus, on 31 December 2019.
In the United States, the first confirmed case of COVID-19 was registered on January 20, 2020 with a resident of Washington State who had recently arrived from China.
Researchers at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) analyzed over 7,000 donor blood samples collected by the American Red Cross in nine states between December 13, 2019 and January 17, 2020.
The authors conducted additional tests to exclude cross-reactivity of antibodies to other viruses and found that the antibodies found were specific to SARS-CoV-2.
Even with possible false positive tests, it is safe to say that by early December the virus was already in the US, scientists note.
"The results suggest that COVID-19 may have already arrived in the United States by December 2019 earlier than previously thought," the authors of the article wrote.
Virologists believe that the presence of antibodies in the blood does not indicate that a person is currently ill, but only that he or she has had contact with the virus in the past.
The authors also note that the design of the study makes it impossible to determine where and when antibody carriers were infected with coronavirus - possibly people who recently returned from China.
It has been reported that the virus has been circulating in China since November 2019.........
Retrospective studies conducted earlier in France and Italy also found antibodies against SARS-CoV-2 in blood samples collected from residents of those countries in early December 2019.
Scientists plan to continue the study by contacting people whose blood showed antibodies to report whether they traveled in late 2019 and experienced symptoms similar to COVID-19.
In addition, the authors hope to find tissue, saliva, or blood samples from these people dating back to that time to test for the presence of genetic material from SARS-CoV-2.