Lukashenko called for reflection on the false theory of the emergence of a coronavirus
President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko called for consideration of the theory of the artificial origin of the SARS CoV-2 coronavirus pandemic, which has been repeatedly denied and recognized as a fake.
He has been quoted on television by Interfax.
Is this pandemic a man-made event?
I do not know.
Think about it, "said Lukashenko and stressed that he had already expressed such thoughts two months ago.
The Belarusian leader discussed the possibility that SARS CoV-2 was created in laboratories to transform the world.
In his view, such a scenario could have been devised in order for the US and China to "confront lies" and share existing world markets, "catch up with other countries" through economic measures.
However, he did not name a country that could create the virus.
Lukashenko himself has repeatedly stated that panic around the pandemic is nothing more than psychosis.
The president advised Belarusians to treat with vodka, bath and tractor works.
In addition, he repeatedly criticized Moscow for its quarantine measures and called them absolute stupidity and stupidity.
The theory that the SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus pandemic originated because of failed laboratory studies or was deliberately caused was repeatedly refuted by WHO and international scientific institutions as early as March.
It was believed that the virus could not be spread artificially.
The hypothesis was based on information that a biological laboratory was operating in Wuhan, China, from where the pandemic spread, and that a coronavirus was actually produced in 2015.
However, as reported by Naked Sciens, it turned out to be a completely different virus.
One of the most popular fake theories in Russia was that the virus was created in the state scientific center Vector, after which it was allegedly deliberately spread in Russia and China by means of an explosion.
What is happening in Russia and the world?
We explain it on our YouTube channel.
Sign!