COVID-19 was created by the Americans: evidence was.....
The information is interesting, but not a fact..
Of course, Americans could, I see no moral restrictions on them in this regard.
But running a virus without a cure is a wise decision.
Are they that stupid?
We need to check if it's the virus.
No, 123, the Yanks are doing a lot of work here - because they can 't, so far, unleash that little wormhole from the sky, they' ve gone the other way - they 've got this topic with coronavirus, they' ve released it around the world, and now whoever dies of anything, whether it 's a pony or a goldfish, is going to be written down on this "" modified "flu in the U.S. flu lab, and it' s the most affected by it in China, with its 1.5 billion people, where only 3,000 people died from this virus this year, although Chinese statistics show that last year about 70,000 people died from seasonal flu.
We have forgotten about AIDS, we have forgotten about avian flu and swine flu, and we don 't remember SARS, so it' s going to go away very soon, like white apple smoke, all the more so because according to the latest edition of Xinhua, the situation is stabilizing and the red line is already going horizontal, and it 's going to go down, and it' s going to get tired, only who will laugh at who then, but no one will want to be an idiot...
This is how our world stands, if not in world wars, but in world affairs.
I'm not arguing, they could, they have motive and opportunity.
I'm just wondering, are they that dull?
Without a vaccine to start it?
I have my doubts.
Well, I have my doubts...
Enjoy reading a comment with common sense!
Launch the virus in China, then spend $$$billion to stabilize health / economy?
Trump received $1 trillion yesterday (!)
From the Congress of National Treatment.
The economy collapsed so that it would take years (at best, a year) to return.
So you're right to doubt...
Vladimir has an adequate version.
But we need to check if it's the virus.
And in general, creating a virus like this is nonsense.
And around the perimeter of the country, if you 're not aware, biolabs are standing.
I once wrote a comment about a biolab in Armenia built with Pentagon money.
All employees are Armenian scientists.
And they invited the Russian delegation to look at it.
Only Russian publications written in English (from where I learned) mentioned this.
No words in Russian.
Oct 2019
Armenia is opening the doors of US biolaboratories to Russia.
The laboratories were a favorite target of the Russian GOS.
Media.
Now, with a new agreement with Yerevan, Moscow has full access.
https: / / eurasianet.org / armenia-to-open-doors-of-us-built-biolabs-to-russia
And don't pretend that biolabs are unnecessary - without them, the science of "epidemiology" will end!
I once wrote a comment about a biolab in Armenia built with Pentagon money.
All employees are Armenian scientists.
And they invited the Russian delegation to look at it.
Only Russian publications written in English (from where I learned) mentioned this.
No words in Russian.
In the article on eurasianet.org there is a link "Sputnik," there is everything in Russian.
Armenia is opening the doors of US biolaboratories to Russia.
The laboratories were a favorite target of the Russian GOS.
Media.
Sounds just great.
Imagine the headline: "Canada has allowed Americans to enter the bio-lab of the Russian Ministry of Defence in Vancouver."
Sound good?
The Russian media should not pretend that biolabs are unnecessary - without them, the science of epidemiology will end!
Great!
I was so ashamed of my ridiculous suspicions.
Almost.
The Pentagon, it turns out, is spending money on science, it seems to exist at all for selfless help to the world.
What selflessness.
It's not like America.
Three days we learned how Trump wanted to take the German vaccine, article here on the site:
The fight for the vaccine: America first began to irritate the Germans.
Today we learned that the Pentagon is not going to do anything to help the Americans themselves.
He doesn 't have the resources to do this, also on the site -
The Pentagon refuses to rescue civilians from the coronavirus.
- Well, finally, this article says the Pentagon has developed a deadly virus.
So what do we got?
The Pentagon is developing deadly viruses, biological weapons, in bio-labs near our borders to dispel all doubts, and has taken journalists to one of the bases and shown them an "educational center," that is, just a classroom.
Of course, they were not allowed in the closed section, and what do journalists understand about this?
They're not professionals.
And now the epidemic has begun, what do we hear from the Pentagon, which has made at least the same virus?
There 's no help in finding a vaccine or helping civilians in America.
They don 't care, they' re just doing science.
Where can we see the results of these very laboratories?
What have they done for science?
I don 't know what the media think, I think - take your epidemiologists home in plain clothes, let them go to the United States to promote science.
Not so long ago, we talked to you about the role of Mask in creating a guidance system.
There is too much American disinterest.
In general, I don 't believe that good soldiers smell rum in laboratories, and an orbital guidance system is just for navigation.
And you're all telling me that you shouldn't worry.
Didn't you work for the CIA before you retired?
And you're all telling me that you shouldn't worry.
For you personally it is worth worrying - adrenaline adorns real men!
Don't get involved, keep your heart...
For you personally it is worth worrying - adrenaline adorns real men!
Don't get involved, keep your heart...
Thanks for the advice.
I don't get it. Are you going to take the plain-clothed virologists home?...................
Don't be so naive or pretend to be an idiot and write nonsense, no one will ever tell you about all the supposedly "scientific" experiments, without exception, that are carried out "top secret" and on special orders from the Pentagon and the CIA, you have to understand clearly that not all studies are made public.
I 'm afraid the economy didn' t collapse because of the coronavirus.
The virus just pushed.
The fall in stock prices was forecast as early as last autumn.
The fact that there were huge bubbles on the stock market was not only written by the lazy.
Well, there 's always a chance that the creators didn' t expect such consequences.
The virus is clearly mutated.
The Internet is full of reports that the virus in Italy is different from the original.
Quote: 123
I'm not arguing, they could, they have motive and opportunity.
I'm just wondering, are they that dull?
Without a vaccine to start it?
I have my doubts.
What is the motive behind the Golden Billion?
You didn't look at the 12 monkeys?
Many consumers are not needed, and the remaining slaves must be resilient.
Here 's natural selection and launch.
The choice of a typical seasonal ORVI virus is logical in general, this anthrax would be too obvious, and there 's sort of a common cold.
What movies have you seen?
What is the motive behind the Golden Billion?
You didn't look at the 12 monkeys?
Many consumers are not needed, and the remaining slaves must be resilient.
Here 's natural selection and launch.
The choice of a typical seasonal ORVI virus is logical in general, this anthrax would be too obvious, and there 's sort of a common cold.
Let us wait and see how the "gold-plated" rows are matched, and then draw conclusions.
Look at your leisure, there is some thought-provoking information:
... the Yanks are doing a lot of trouble here - because they can 't, so far, unleash that little wormhole from the sky, they' ve gone the other way - they 've got this topic with coronavirus, they' ve released it around the world, and now whoever dies of anything, whether it 's a ponce or a golden ear, it' s going to be written down on this "modified" flu in the U.S. Influenza Laboratories, and it 's the most affected by it in China, with its 1.5 billion people, where only 3,000 people died from this virus in China this year, although according to Chinese statistics, about 70,000 people died last year from seasonal flu (see the difference?
), but the economic damage caused by the United States was considerable, not a tens of billions of dollars, and Europe was not badly affected...
You're in a hurry to assess events.
China took the first hit, the wave went around the planet, in America itself more than 15,000 infected, say infected sailors on aircraft carriers, "souvenirs" attached in Europe can turn them into floating infirmary.
Today is discovered the first infected in us, a woman brought to Surgut "fashion sickness" from Italy.
The virus is on the way.
In general, nothing is done yet and conclusions are drawn early.
In fact, the virus was created long ago by Russia (in Vector, which works with coronaviruses, among other things), and now there is simply a reason to launch it - trade relations between the US and China have only just begun to improve, which should not be allowed.
As a result, everything collapsed in China, everything collapsed in the US (contrary to the expectations of Yankee bioweapons storytellers), everything collapsed in Europe (one can dare to demand sanctions in exchange for help), and crowds of hamsters believe, contrary to the facts, that it is America, and it is ready.
Normal people know that criminals very often turn out to be those they would never think of in their lives.
Too bad there's so few.
Quotation: Yuzhernim Yuzhern
In fact, the virus was created long ago by Russia (in Vector, which works with coronaviruses, among other things), and now there is simply a reason to launch it - trade relations between the US and China have only just begun to improve, which should not be allowed.
As a result, everything collapsed in China, everything collapsed in the US (contrary to the expectations of Yankee bioweapons storytellers), everything collapsed in Europe (one can dare to demand sanctions in exchange for help), and crowds of hamsters believe, contrary to the facts, that it is America, and it is ready.
Normal people know that criminals very often turn out to be those they would never think of in their lives.
Too bad there's so few.
Another reincarnation... appeared and, as usual, revealed the deepest truth to all.
And we kind of believe you.
I don't know how to make up stories for you, but I know how to make up stories for you.
Quotation: Yuzhernim Yuzhern
I don't know how to make up stories for you, but I know how to make up stories for you.
In your experience, do you write about fiction?
Sometimes... maybe you can, but while you're doing a bad job...
Not enough to demolish the Twin Towers with 3,500 Americans and not Americans.
In fact, during Kristallnacht, three Jews, citizens of Poland, were beaten and apologized and paid compensation.
These Nazis.
Quote: 123
We need to check if it's the virus.
They checked.
Our Piter scientists have deciphered the genome of this disease.
Conclusion: The virus is of a living origin.
There's a lot of conspiracy theories.
The information is interesting, but not a fact..
Of course, Americans could, I see no moral restrictions on them in this regard.
But running a virus without a cure is a wise decision.
Are they that stupid?
We need to check if it's the virus.
As an alternative, there may be some unforeseen circumstances that have caused this contagion to spread!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
Fully adequate version
COVID-19 built by the Americans
- No wonder!
In general, it is the Americans who are to blame for everything that happens in the bad world, and it is the Americans who are to blame for the fact that the dollar at 80 is their own fault.
Don't put it all together... no one's talking about the dollar here.
COVID-19 built by the Americans
Everyone has known this for a long time and no evidence is needed, and that is clear.
We wanted to punish the uncompromising China, but everything went out of control and as if they didn't pay for it.
The time has come for the world to pay the price of US impunity!
Do you not have enough links to the website where you talk about crossing the coronavirus?
It is also home to the bats of China.
It can also be transmitted to humans.
2015.
And suddenly, in 2019, there 's the same supposedly natural mutation in nature?
At the height of the American-Chinese controversy.
After Trump's direct threats.
Accident... The probability of such an accident is lower than the chance of an accident on a flying saucer and tram.
This is what Professor Vladimir Nikiforov, Doctor of Medical Sciences, Head of the Department of Infectious Diseases of Pirogov Medical University, UN expert on bioterrorism and one of the most experienced infectionists in our country, told.
The painting is ambiguous.
On the one hand, yes, the problem is pretty serious - yes, people get sick, yes, they die.
On the other hand, a completely inexplicable panic, a completely counterproductive campaign of terror, hysteria, not without the participation of the media.
I have some questions about Europe that have accumulated as a professional that I cannot answer, and I think no one can: why such a leap in Italy, with such high lethality all of a sudden?
It's obviously a new virus, of course.
Europe simply replicates China's model, only I DON'T MIND why Italy is so lethal.
If we look at the conceptual point of view, it is the SECOND SECOND BEAST: one was in Uhana, the second in Italy, assuming that they are skilled (clever pentagon, etc.).
pens.
Russia sent its medical representatives to China for monitoring.
Were you there?
Vladimir Nikiforov: There is no in Wuhan.
My assignment was to look at a professional, but the Chinese realized that I was a professional, so in Beijing everything came to an end.
I think, of course, not because of me, there was a representative brigade, there were eight or seven of us, in general, two were just representatives of the Ministry of Health, the rest were representatives of the Federal Consumer Surveillance.
I was on the side of the Ministry of Health, and I wanted to see it all.
All right, well, I don't think they let me go to Wuhan. Come on, show me a hospital in China.
They didn't let me..
We came with our test systems, we said, let us test them.
We 're told, "We' re not going to let you into the lab, we 're going to have your test systems."
They picked it up, went to the lab, came in a few hours later, said it was working.
Still believing.
We say, "Give me the virus."
We cannot, we have dual use.
Then we got the virus another way.
What does "dual use" mean?
Vladimir Nikiforov: You can make a vaccine, you can do the opposite.
And who did we get it from?
Vladimir Nikiforov: We got it.
Or do you think we're dreaming what?
We're peaceful people, but our armored train.
You know what a virus is?
Not for dual use.
If I want to, I can collect this virus myself in a few days.
You need an original to make a vaccine.
You can take RNA and assemble it like Lego.
It 's basically possible, it' s going to be an artificial virus, but it 's an eraser.
A copy is always worse than the original.
You have to have a real virus from the patient, so you can actually create a whole vaccine that actually works.
And there 's a third pentagon virus.
At the request of Israel, pentagon bio-hunters have infected Iran!!!
First entry in China.
It is the second virus in Italy.
Europe has surpassed Asia in deaths from coronavirus.
According to the latest data, 3,384 people have died in Asia from COVID-2019 due to coronavirus, and more than 3,400 people have died in Europe to date.
The total number of people infected with coronavirus worldwide is 204,405.
Of these, 8232 died and 82,452 recovered successfully.
The virus was most commonly diagnosed in China with 80,894 episodes, followed by Italy with 31,506 cases and Iran with 16,196 cases.
Chinese Foreign Ministry official Zhao Lixian believes that the US military could have brought the COVID-19 coronavirus to China.
He tweeted about the deaths of American soldiers from coronavirus, although they were initially diagnosed with influenza.
The virus was imported into the Chinese market and spread there by unidentified individuals.
The traces of the global epidemic lead to the sinister bio-laboratories of the United States Pentagon scattered around the world.
They surrounded Russia and China from all sides!!!
The Pentagon of the United States has sent all of Europe to the viral NOKDAUN and all deaths on their conscience!
The Pentagon's bio-laboratories of SMERTI, scattered around the world, must be closed, and the US must make reparations to all countries.
The virus was imported into the Chinese market from outside and spread there by unidentified individuals.
This virus can only be modified in secret laboratories.
The traces of the global epidemic lead to the sinister bio-laboratories of the United States Pentagon scattered around the world.
They surrounded Russia and China from all sides!!!
The Americans began bio-terrorism against the world under the cover of Chinese Wuhan.
The virus travels through Europe - the ghost of the bio laboratories of the United States Pentagon.
The US Pentagon bio-lab team tried and created a viral monster.
WHOA!
They're here.
The U.S. Pentagon sent all of Europe to the viral NOKDAUN!!!
The Pentagon's SMERTI biolaboratories, scattered around the world, must be closed, and the US must compensate all countries.
American democracy is the most barbaric and brutal in the world.
Work hard, comrade.
In the age of the Internet, to take a piece of a real interview with a professor and attribute to him a piece about the Pentagon bio-labs SMERTY is really a mess.
You have to work longer, so it's not good.
https: / / www.bfm.ru / news / 439203
1, 2, 3, 3, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 12, 12, 13, 13, 13, 13, 14, 14, 14, 15, 15, 16, 16, 17, 17, 18, 19
3.4.5. Conclusions from other sources.
It's kind of a partial PASL!
Many sources already confirm and point to the US!!!
When a lot of facts give a general picture of what happened.
The Coronavirus, which is now killing thousands of people around the world, was developed by the EcoHealth Alliance, a unit of the United States Agency for International Development (USAID)!!!!!
The United States unleashed a biological war against the entire world!!!
But you didn 't share in your comments what the professor said, what you came up with.
Propaganda is like that.
Even the words of Vladimir Nikiforov were cut.
This is the impression, if you stand at the point of a third-party observer, that there is simply a second completely independent focal point.
Or, if you look at the conceptual point of view, it 's a second entry: one was in Vienna, the other was in Italy, assuming they' re skilled pens.
To say that Italy is such an old nation and that is why it has such a high lethality... In general, you can guess, but there is no puzzle.
And as the Chinese say -
We can't, we have dual use.
They say it's an American virus?
In fact, in all the interviews, no mention of Americans, and even that he is artificial, is mentioned casually as one of the probabilities in the above quote.
No wonder.
Experts from the Indian University of Jawaharlal Nehru made an unexpected discovery about the origin of the new type of coronavirus that has plagued the planet in recent months.
According to Lenta.ru, genetic experts have found that COVID-2019 contains the characteristics of two different coronaviruses as well as four inserts that are characteristic of HIV.
For this reason, scientists concluded that the virus was artificially created for use in combat.
The findings of experts from India have already been commented on by former member of the UN commission on biological and chemical weapons, military expert Igor Nikulin, stating that he has no doubt that the origin of the COVID-2019 coronavirus is the US.
"There is no doubt that it was created purposefully," he said.
And, given that the epidemic primarily benefits the US, circumstantial evidence is more than enough.
Sorry, not straight.
In fact, no one doubted that the US is the real empire of evil, ready to do anything to gain its domination of the world.
The Coronavirus, which is now killing thousands of people around the world, was developed by the EcoHealth Alliance, a United States Agency for International Development (USAID) environmental and health agency funded by the United States government.
A total of nine scientists from six research centers in the United States, China and Switzerland participated in the development of the virus.
IT HAPPENED in 2015 or earlier.....................
An article about the research was published in the scientific journal Nature on 9 November 2015.
In English, it reads: "A SARS-like group of coronaviruses of bats demonstrates the potential for human transition."
So anyone can still check this information on the magazine's website.
This raises a legitimate question.
- Why are US criminal couriers from USAID investigating the possibility of infecting people with a virus that is not in nature?
The past strange epidemics have also raised questions for the US.
Why did the American Army Institute of Molecular Pathology (AFIP) in 1997 remove the lung tissue of an Alaskan woman who died in 1918 from a Spanish pandemic and was buried in permafrost?
The answer is simple.
To recreate the strain of this H1N1 disease, which was done in 2002.
And then, as it were, the strains of this flu would emerge.
2002-2003 - Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS), better known as SARS; 2009 - outbreak of a new strain of the H1N1 subtype virus known as "swine flu"; April 2013 - outbreak of the avian flu strain H7N9 in China, when 175 out of 543 cases died.
So all these epidemics were organized by Americans!!!
Research centers that have created a chimeric version of the coronavirus bat that is now dying all over the world: 1.
University of North Carolina (USA).
National Center for Toxicology Research (Arkansas, USA).
Harvard Medical School (USA).
Dana-Farber Institute of Oncology.
Wuhan Institute of Virology (China).
Institute of Biomedical Research (Zurich, Switzerland).
In November 2019, a new type of coronavirus was reported in the United States.
A complete list of scientists and scientific centres participating in the study:
Scott H. Randell.
Scott H. Randell.
Wayne and Marasco.
In 2012, Russian authorities "asked" the US Agency USAID to leave Russia because of interference in internal affairs.
There is not a single country in the world where this criminal agency USAID has not put its criminal nose.
These facts prove that the coronavirus epidemic in the world was organized by the United States!
The virus could have leaked.
Perhaps even a deliberate injection into Wuhan to undermine China's economy.
We do not have basic masks in pharmacies, the employees of the pharmacy themselves and even the doctors in hospitals in Sevastopol without masks.
There was never a flu epidemic.
They gave everything to China and Italy...
My personal opinion on this virus, I agree as sex that it was created by the Americans... to whom it is not now advantageous to start with the war between Russia and Ukraine, which turns out that the Americans are now looting Russia while the war between the two countries is going on and Ukraine officially receives support in the war from the Americans between Russia and Ukraine but in fact, Ukraine is in fact taking on an uncanny amount of money from the European Union because in order to get support from the European Union Ukraine must join NATO but in order to do so it has to stop the war but again it is not advantageous that Ukraine will fight until it becomes again an ally of Russia...
And what about cheating? It's definitely the Americans' fault, so they want to pillage Russia's land on two fronts, from the economy to the total extinction of the population.
And Ukraine as a witness will also be cleared for EU settlement.
And while I don 't think there' s any vaccine for this virus, it 's actually not in the best interests of the Americans to deliver this vaccine and bring it into production right now.
Once again, the entire population of several countries will be wiped out, and the rest of other countries will be penalised, thus reducing the population of the world and burying everything in the European Union.