Who and why created COVID-19 coronavirus
The main question that a billion people are asking themselves is, where did COVID-19 come from, which was able to take the whole planet into a completely new reality?
There is an answer to that question.
But let 's start with what the virus is.
Let's just say what it's called for the common man.
What is a virus?
The virus consists of a genetic material in the form of DNA or RNA and protects their protein envelope.
The virus does not reproduce by division, but replicates itself using the cells of the organism it has entered.
The virus embeds its DNA into the DNA of the host cell.
In this way, the cell may acquire new qualities or die.
The virus is a parasite that can only reproduce inside other living cells.
Under one condition, a virus and a living cell fit together.
Viruses are many and varied - some are used by humans, others by various animals, plants, animals, fungi, and bacteria.
There are even viruses that reproduce only... in viruses.
Important!
Viruses don't cure.
The virus cannot be destroyed with a pill, an antibiotic.
All anti-viral treatment is, in fact, increasing immunity, and combating the consequences and unpleasant symptoms of viral infection.
So the joke is, you 're going to be treated for the flu, you' re going to get better in a week, you 're not going to be - in seven days.
What is coronavirus?
This is a family of viruses.
There are many, several such viruses.
They have been known for a long time.
There are various influenza viruses, there are hepatitis viruses, and there are coronaviruses.
Some of them affect humans and some animals.
What is the peculiarity of the COVID-19 coronavirus, whose pandemic has been declared by the World Health Organization?
A feature of this virus is that it is a new strain of coronavirus, which "suddenly" from wild animals (presumably bats) became transmitted to humans and used human cells to reproduce.
That is, the virus had previously only hit bats, and suddenly it was able to hit people together, and then the epidemic started.
Now is the time to ask the most important question: is the change of the coronavirus and its "transition" from bats to humans a natural process, or is it the result of deliberate human action?
Is COVID-19 a product of conscious work?
More and more information is available to answer the question of the artificial origin of the virus, which has turned the world into one large prison.
In doing so, we will rely on original sources, checking and re-checking.
The REGNUM news agency has the following information:
Coronavirus was created in the United States in 2015 at the Pentagon's secret laboratory, Walter Reed Army Research Institute in Fort Detrick.
In 2015, the journal Nature reported that a laboratory at Fort Detrick in the United States had successfully experimented with modifying the coronavirus of a Chinese flying mouse, which could enter human cells without an intermediate animal.
In the same article it was stated that the authors considered such experiments to be extremely dangerous.
The question of the natural or artificial origin of COVID-19 coronavirus has several dimensions.
But, in any case, the question "self-appeared" or "was created" is primary.
The second question arises from the first, and it goes like this: if they created, why?
And already only the third should be asked the most inconvenient: if created, how did it end up "at will"?
Was this a coincidence or a deliberate use of biological weapons?
We do not trust anyone, so after reading the information of the REGNUMA, we carry out additional searches and find an article from another Russian information resource.
It 's interesting because it was written four and a half years before today' s events (November 13, 2015), and it 's called "Scientists Scared of the Successful Experiment to Reengineer the Bat Virus" (Lenta).
Today 's version of the natural origin of the COVID-19 coronavirus tells us that it' s passed on to humans, just from bats in the Chinese city of Wuhan.
Those who say COVID-19 was created specifically say the same - but only that it was not the result of the "evolution" of the coronavirus or some natural causes, but the result of the systematic work of scientists.
See 2015 article.
A successful laboratory experiment to create a hybrid form of bat coronavirus capable of infecting humans has raised concerns among scientists about the unpredictable consequences of mutant virus leakage.
The discovery and controversy surrounding it is reported by Nature News.
American biologists created a chimera from the Chinese bat-borne virus known as SHC014: its surface protein was transferred to the SARS virus living in light-test mice (to simulate human infection).
Scientists have proven that SHC014 already has all the necessary tools to bind to the core receptor of human cells.
The experiment confirmed the hypothesis of direct human infection with coronavirus bats.
However, other virologists doubt that this conclusion justifies the risk of an experiment: scientists have created a new virus that reproduces perfectly in human cells.
Moreover, they continued their work even after the US government imposed a moratorium on funding influenza, SARS, and MERS research in October 2014 (an exception was made for the project).
The authors of the study do not agree with this position: had it not been for the experiment, no one would have known about the threat of SHC014.
All scientists were convinced that it was incapable of infecting humans, and only the transplant experience showed that the bat virus SHC014 had already overcome key obstacles and learned to penetrate cells. "
It turns out that the work to create a coronavirus that can be transmitted from bats to humans was actually done by American scientists!
And this was explicitly written four, five years ago.
The paper refers to a Western scientific publication, where articles on such studies were allegedly posted.
We search and find.
Here 's the original news from the November 12, 2015, English-language resource Nature.com, which sparked a debate about whether it' s possible to conduct such experiments, and whether it 's not dangerous.
The paper is titled "Engineered bat virus stirs debate over risky research."
So there was really a study like this in 2015, and after it was published, there was a debate and a wave of criticism that was much clearer in 2020.
The risk of a new coronavirus spreading is enormous!
And we move on to information resources.
On the same site Nature.com we find the most detailed article of November 9, 2015, in which American scientists described their work on designing a new coronavirus "from bats to humans."
Here are a few quotes from this extensive English text, which everyone can study fully on their own.
Here we are exploring the potential for a SARS-like virus, SHC014-CoV, which is currently circulating in populations of Chinese horseshoe bats.
Appearance
SARS-CoV marked
self
new
era
interspecies
transfer
Heavy
respiratory
diseases
Globalization
, lead
rapid
dissemination
all
peace
mass
Economic
impact
Together, these data confirm the ability of SPIC SHC014 viruses to infect human respiratory cells and highlight the potential threat of interspecific transmission of SHC014-CoV.
Synthetic design of chimeric mutant and feature-length
014.
was approved by the University of North Carolina's Institutional Biosafety Committee and the concern's Dual-Use Research Committee. "
These studies were initiated before the US government suspended funding for research in the advisory process on selected influenza virus enhancement studies.
MARS
http: / / www.phe.gov / s3 / dualusi / Documents / gain-of-function.pdf
document reviewed by the financial agency
It was proposed to continue these studies and this was approved by the National Institute of Health. "
American scientists explain in detail that they deliberately created a new "chimeric virus" that could be transmitted from bats to humans in order to study the potential for occurrence (i.e., the potential to infect humans).
They then tested the efficacy of available immunotherapy.
Thus, it is stated that "to expand this data, the primary cultures of human respiratory epithelium (HAE) were infected and showed reliable replication of both viruses."
Let us sum up.
The fact that US scientists are working on a virus that, like two drops of water, resembles COVID-19 is clear.
This fact is not even hidden and was officially announced 4.5 years before the outbreak of the new coronavirus pandemic.
American scientists worked to create the "chimera virus" even after US authorities imposed a moratorium on such work.
No punishment for scientists is known.
After the discussion on the risks of such work, there is also no information on what has happened to the results.
In December 2019, an epidemic began in China caused by an unprecedented coronavirus called COVID-19.
By the beginning of 2020, the epidemic had spread around the world and had become a cause for the virtual elimination of the habits of hundreds of millions, if not billions, of people.
I think the debate on the artificiality of the origin of COVID-19 is not closed.
But the arguments for the nature of the epidemic are diminishing.
I think millions of people are very anxious to get answers to two key questions:
Who created the COVID-19 coronavirus?
How did he find himself "at liberty" and begin his march on our planet?