Swedish scientists named duration of immunity after COVID-19
Immunity against coronavirus infection with a low probability of recurrence and transmission to others is maintained for at least nine months after the disease.
On February 16, TT agency reported this with reference to research by Karolinska Institute and Danderyd Clinic.
Scientists found that 96% of the 370 participants in the study who worked in health facilities in close contact with coronavirus patients maintained antibodies for nine months after the disease was transmitted.
Two-thirds of those surveyed developed "cell memory" of infection, i.e. cell immunity.
According to doctor and researcher Charlotte Tolin, antibodies and cell immunity are indirect indicators of immunity, while PCR screening conducted jointly with the Health Department is a direct indicator.
The doctor pointed out that existing immunity in the event of a recurrence could mutate the symptoms, with the person continuing to be the transmitter of the infection, even considering himself healthy.
In the same screening study, we had a group that had no antibodies, and we found 20 percent of the virus carriers, mostly asymptomatic.
I was worried that in the group of people with antibodies we would find more carriers, but that didn't happen, "Tolin said.
The study found that less than 1% of 340 people with antibodies experienced a relapse.
Therefore, the experts concluded that the risk of recurrence of COVID-19 is extremely low.
The next phase of research is scheduled for May after vaccination of the participants in the study.
On 12 February, WHO reported repeated cases of COVID-19.
It noted that scientists were currently conducting studies on the duration of immunity from the virus in patients who had been infected and that the majority of those vaccinated carried the virus in light form.
According to scientists at Yale University Medical School, one of the reasons why a person may be reinfected with coronavirus infection is poor immunity or reactivation of residual infection in the patient.