Scientists warned!
SARS-CoV-2 under a microscope.
Photo: Reuters
Last week, the wisest Leonid Kaganov announced on his website a moderate-conspiracy version of the artificial origin of COVID-19.
In 2015, Nature published an article by the famous American virologist Ralph Berik and his colleague from the Wuhan Institute of Virology Shi Zhenli.
The article stated that scientists from North Carolina and Wuhan had taken the non-human coronavirus of the Chinese bat SHC014 (its surface protein), crossed it with the dangerous SARS and received a new human-dangerous virus.
They 've actually collected - physically, in a test tube - a human-dangerous coronavirus.
It was at this time that the American government banned such experiments, and the work ended in Wuhan.
In 2017, Dr. Shi reported that she had found in the cave population of Yunnan all the mutations necessary for a human epidemic.
In December 2019, she made her first diagnosis of a new infection in.
We have every reason to believe that a hybrid of a dangerous but inexorable SARS and a very volatile but inexorable coronavirus has begun to create criminal [bad people] in North Carolina for scientific interest to understand if such a threat is possible.
After being banned from doing [wrong] work to create the virus, even more criminal Chinese colleagues successfully completed the work in the insufficiently protected Wuhan laboratory, "Kaganov writes.
For the Hollywood script, Kaganov's version looks exactly right, but professional biologists have been skeptical.
Without being a biologist like Kaganov (and being like him a science fiction writer), I could refer to a recent, March 17, 2020, article in the same Nature on the natural origin of COVID-19, or a more popular (he thinks) text written by Alexander Panchin, a senior researcher at the Mikhail Gelfand Institute.
Of course, it 's funny that some conspiracy theorists are surprised even by the fact that virologists who are specifically studying coronaviruses from the largest coronaviruses research center have discovered a new coronaviruses.
But for the sake of simplicity, I 'm going to go to the explanation of my good friend Konstantin Chumakov, one of many Russian biologists who went to the United States and made an excellent scientific and administrative career there, becoming Deputy Director of Vaccine Development and Research at the FDA.
Every piece of DNA or RNA is, roughly speaking, text.
We are not yet in a position to correct this text in a simple way.
When we do gene editing, we simply insert into this DNA (or RNA in the case of a virus) a piece of other DNA.
So if COVID-19 had an artificial origin, he would have one piece like a dad and the other like a mom.
This is a text in which some letters are changed uniformly throughout its length, or, to put it mildly, "very small nucleotide differences are spread evenly over the entire length of the genome."
In other words, SARS-CoV2 evolved through the gradual accumulation of mutations, and we know its predecessor, this very bat virus.
This is exactly what the authors of the above-mentioned studies warned against in both 2015 and 2017.
"Our work," they wrote, "warns of the potential risk of a new outbreak of SARS-CoV from the viruses currently circulating in bat populations."
This is what epidemiologist Michael Osterholm wrote in his 2017 book Deadliest Enemy: Our War Against Killer Germs.
He also warned that the two previous species of coronavirus, SARS (10% of deaths) and MERS (30% of deaths), which also jumped on humans from animals (MERS could only be infected from a camel), were not the end but the beginning of a great journey.
Huoyan Laboratory.
Photo: EPA
In other words, a lot of virologists, not science fiction writers, warned: guys, this is the kind of coronaviruses that live in bats that have a problem.
He's too close.
He needs one jump.
The virus mutates at a rate of 1 mutation per week.
And coronavirus still has the longest genome among other viruses.
Virologists in this story resemble the heroes of an old anecdote about a chukcha drinking a bitch sitting on it.
A passerby walks by and says, "You'll fall."
The dog slaps the bitch, falls down, climbs up, and, slamming his side, tells the passerby, "Sorcerer, however."
You didn 't have to be a witch, you just had to be a good virologist to know what was going to happen.
Could this have been prevented?
- Yes, I do.
For example, in 2002, during the SARS outbreak, scientists started to make a vaccine from it, but they didn 't finish it - SARS ended, and it costs several billion dollars to finish the vaccine.
There was no commercial prospect for the vaccine, and the government did not provide any money.
If the vaccine were ready, it would be relatively easy to complete it under COVID-19.
I 'm sure most of my readers (like me) heard for the first time that, for several years, virologists had warned about the possibility of a new coronavirus epidemic, and even told me where the new coronavirus would come from: from bats.
Why were warnings not heeded?
It 's very simple: because they' ve drowned in the white noise of other catastrophic predictions.
Black sand in the near future is a commodity that goes on holiday in the modern world.
We 're constantly being threatened by global warming, GMOs, fascism, sexism, and so on. Because sea level is going to rise by N meters and flood 630 million people, an asteroid is going to hit the planet, and we' re going to be hit by drought, floods, hurricanes and famine.
And it 's not always this black dog who' s offered us Kremlin fakes or frickes who fear invasion from Sirius.
It is now fashionable to complain about fakes: both those who are specially produced by the Olgin trolls, and those who are self-begotten in the Net from dreamlike ignorance combined with confidence in their own genius.
But these fakes are not dangerous at all.
They're made idiots, and only idiots can infect them.
There are very different kinds of fakes: those that experts spread to raise their own status.
These fakes are made much more professional, and it is hard to fight them precisely because experts are interested in disseminating them.
Who doesn't remember the problem of 2000, when all the smart-looking IT specialists asked us to buy new computers so that the old ones wouldn't crash at 00: 00 in 2000?
No one's been wiped out.
What about the Global warming, which is promoted by leading climatologists, not by frickes at all, but by leading climatologists, "the biggest and most successful pseudoscientific fraud that I have seen in my long life as a scientist," according to famous physicist Harold Lewis, or, even more succinctly, "pseudoscientific," according to Nobel Prize-winning physicist Ivar Giver?
Imagine the WHO bureaucrats warning us about coronavirus.
But how could the bureaucrats at WHO, after they had all their ears tickled us, believe that the world is now going to hit Ebola, which, for a minute, is not airborne?
(In English, it is sufficient not to have any other caches.)
How can one believe that the WHO ranks Italy (where people die of coronavirus in the hundreds every day) second in terms of health, and the US 37th?.
How can we trust the WHO even now, when it gives us a death rate from coronavirus of 3.4%, when in Germany, with its well-developed testing, the death rate is 0.4%?
Even now, during the epimedy of the coronavirus, we see the notion of an expert being devalued before our very eyes..............
Prof.
Neil Ferguson, for example, states that without a total quarantine of 18 months, 2.2 million people in the United States and 500,000 in the United Kingdom will die.
And Oxford epidemiologists say that 50% of Britain's population is already infected with coronavirus, and most of them have acquired immunity.
Without being a virologist, I cannot say which of the two highly respected experts is right.
But as an expert in the recognition of fake news, I have every reason to suspect that either Dr. Ferguson is feeding yellow, or, conversely, Oxford epidemiologists are drawing too bright a picture.
When non-professional connoisseurs tell us that COVID-19 was made in a lab, the fake is easy to expose.
But what if the fake is designed by an expert?
The warnings of Michael Osterholm, Ralph Berik, and Shi Zhanli drowned in the white noise of other experts' warnings of global warming, floods, famine, and water scarcity.
Unfortunately, nothing can be done.
No "expert council on the dangers ahead" should be recommended at the UN, because in such an expert council the weak voices of true scientists will sink into the chorus of anti-capitalism fighters.
The amazing thing is that, from a purely scientific point of view, humanity has grown to predict and mitigate the many disasters that await it.
However, given the number of professional pustules parasitizing the high status that science has in today's society, we cannot take advantage of this.