Either remove the mask, or write an instruction
The coronavirus pandemic divided society into supporters of medical masks and anti-masks.
Experts believe that even a new day-to-day rise in morbidity statistics will not force some people to put on protective clothing: some feel unfree and want to "get their face back," others are tired of being afraid.
In the meantime, doctors believe that the growth of gout patients is not least related to anti-massage mood.
At the end of August, Alexander Saversky, president of the public organization "League of Patient Defenders," published a petition on the online platform Change.org against compulsory wearing of masks.
People are tired of controversial restrictions, one of which is the mandatory wearing of masks under the threat of fines.
WHO stated as early as April that masks should be worn by patients and specialists from high-risk areas (health workers), but in June changed its position, "Mr. Saversky explained.
To date, the petition has received about 8,000 signatures.
The author is confident that the voices of those opposed to wearing masks are blocked.
"It is difficult to verify that in three weeks only eight thousand people signed it," "U" said Mr. Saversky.
- I gathered 30,000 during the quarantine for its abolition a week later without the help of outside resources. "
The petition is addressed to the President of Russia, the Government, the Federal Office of Consumer Protection and the authorities of the constituent entities of the Russian Federation.
In the list of requirements: remove COVID-19 from the list of diseases that pose a danger to others, abolish the compulsory wearing of masks and instead recommend that the population wear them without threat of punishment.
The "League of Patients' Defenders," headed by Alexander Seversky, includes lawyers who advise citizens free of charge on the violation of their patients' rights.
Mr. Saversky himself for several years was chairman of the Public Council for the Protection of Patients' Rights at Rossanznadzor, member of the Public Council of the Ministry of Health and Social Development, co-chairman of the All-Russian Union of Patients.
One of the recent initiatives of the Patient Defense League is the requirement to remove the BAD from the pharmacy.
But the key theme of recent months has been to combat the restrictions that the pandemic has caused.
Alexander Saversky opposes distance education, the sale of coronavirus areplivir in pharmacies due to a wide range of side effects and massage regimen.
Massage patients
Alexander Saversky explains that he decided to create a petition after receiving complaints from subscribers of the "League of Patients' Defenders" on social media and acquaintances.
"A friend calls me, says he has a friend who died recently, 38 years old.
He climbed to the fifth floor in a mask and fell.
Stroke.
But the pathologist will say that the man died of a stroke, the mask does not even appear there, "" U "says Mr. Saversky.
In the text of the petition, he drew attention to the WHO interim recommendations, which stated that there were currently no studies to confirm the benefits or side effects of general and long-term use of masks by health workers.
However, the same recommendations state that, despite the lack of evidence, the vast majority of members of the WHO team support the continued wearing of health masks throughout the shift.
In addition, Mr. Saversky noted that millions of people in Russia have respiratory and cardiovascular diseases.
For them, according to the petitioner, the prolonged wearing of the mask makes breathing difficult and increases the risk of seizures and deaths.
He proposed to create instructions and contraindications for masks as medical products, which automatically eliminates the issue of compulsory wear.
Mr. Saversky also stressed that masks need to be changed regularly, and that buying them in large numbers in times of economic crisis is an "intolerable luxury" for many Russians.
Throughout the world, masks have become a symbol of the struggle against power constraints caused by the coronavirus pandemic.
On September 13, a rally was held in Vancouver against the mandatory wearing of masks.
The organizers called it the "Vancouver Freedom March."
It is notable that, along with anti-masochists, anti-vaccinators and proponents of conspiracy theories on the influence of 5G gathered on the steps of the art gallery.
We are not against masks, we are for freedom.
If you want to wear a mask or a ballet pack, it's your right.
But you have no right to put them on my face or on the faces of my children, "said Kelly Ann Woolf, executive director of The Line Canada, who organized another Canadian protest on August 29 - the COVID-19 Global Anti-Security rally in Ottawa.
Similar rallies took place in Brussels, Paris, London, Madrid and Berlin.
It is reported that from several hundred to several thousand people took part in each such action.
The claims and demands of people are the same.
They call the masks a "sanitary dictatorship," which violates their personal rights and freedoms.
The authorities have not responded to such appeals, but have tightened restrictions.
For example, in France, for appearing without a mask on the street or in a shop, a fine of €135 was imposed, which could reach €1,500 in the event of further violations.
However, according to a study by the Jean Jorez Foundation, 63% of the French population voted against the compulsory wearing of masks.
In Russia, there are also many who are dissatisfied with the massage regime.
As early as July, the marketing research agency of the Wanta Group reported that Russians are less likely to wear masks and gloves.
The First Deputy Chief of Staff of the Mayor and Government of Moscow Alexei Nemeriuk stated that only about a third of the residents wear masks in public places, compared to more than 90% in May.
Under the petition on the page of Alexander Saversky many comments in support explaining the position of anti-masochists.
The stupidity of the massage regimen is getting worse!
In "Children's World," everything goes shopping without or without masks, but on the cashier you are forced to pin it "at least on the chin," otherwise denial of service
You refuse to wear it, you stand on your own, and it's your turn.
A trained herd.
They could all take off their masks and attack not the buyer but the seller who refuses to do their job.
So the "just don 't wear" recommendation doesn' t work.
They live normal people, they leave obedient people and in windmills! "
"Back from War" Syndrome
The issue of compulsory wearing of masks has divided society into supporters (those who consider the mask to be at least a new sign of good tone) and convinced opponents of restrictive measures.
And sometimes this struggle turns from ideological to quite real.
Twitter users shared a video of KLM passengers on a Amsterdam-Ibiza flight fighting over one of them refusing to wear a mask.
"There are some people who rationally think that mask is a protection," explains sociologist of the center of social design "Platform" Alexei Firsov.
- There are some people who believe that wearing a mask is a responsibility not only to themselves but also to.
It is relatively uncomfortable for these people to see a part of society that sabotages the masks. "
Mr. Firsov believes that people in general are tired of a rigid system of restrictions and compensate for deprivation with an emphasis on disregard for rules.
In addition, there have been conflicting reports throughout the pandemic about whether masks protect, and in such situations, notes the sociologist, people tend to choose the concept they feel comfortable with.
On the one hand, the core of the dissident covid in its radical forms has shrunk because more and more information about the disease has emerged.
But, taking the disease as a fact, society shifted its skepticism to restrictive measures, and the level of trust in power declined accordingly.
As a result - and we felt it well at the end of May - early June - the "return from war" syndrome emerged, which involves strong psychological compensation.
So people wanted to make everything less restrictive, "says Alexei Firsov.
Natalya Kiselnikov, Deputy Director of the Psychological Institute of the Russian Academy of Education (RAO) confirms that, on the one hand, reluctance to wear a mask is psychological protection when a person refuses to acknowledge the cause of concern; on the other hand, resistance to control and pressure.
The reduction in morbidity is interpreted as a reduction in risk, although at the same time people were already home in the spring.
The risk scale was blurred because in March 700 cases appeared to be very high in Moscow compared to 100 cases, and in July 700 cases appeared to be high compared to.,,,,,,.,,,,,,,
- already little, "notes Mrs. Kiselnikov.
The psychologist adds that some of those who have not worn or will not wear protective devices in public places are dissident cheaters who, even at a time of high morbidity, believed in conspiracy theories and denied the pandemic.
Attempt to return face
Sociologist Alexey Firsov has several explanations for why masks became a symbol of struggle.
He believes that a situation typical of Russia has arisen: if there is a formal restriction and a requirement to implement it, there is no proper reasoning and control.
It 's a protest phenomenon that we can never catalyze into politics - just because the tools are blocked.
But he shows himself mocking the attempt at regulatory control in areas that are impossible to reach, such as smoking on balconies............
Because genetically we have a citizen - always a guerrilla who plays with the state: once it imposes a restriction, the citizen searches for loopholes and bypasses.
The mask became part of this game. "
Furthermore, the mask cannot be ignored because it always reminds itself, and if you dig deeper, believes Mr. Firsov, it depersonalises and depersonalizes the person, that is, transforms him into a managed statistical unit.
In Eastern culture, where there is no such privacy of the body, where society lives as a collective organism, masks have long been the norm.
European culture, says a sociologist, personified, egocentric, it confers responsibility on the subject himself, who views his body as absolute privacy.
Attempts by the authorities to impose the compulsory wearing of masks in such cases appear to be an attack on freedom, as the participants in European rallies have said.
In general, the expert believes that people have exhausted the margin of prohibitive mobilization.
He can only return if the situation with coronavirus becomes critical again.
According to the latest statistics, this possibility is not excluded.
COVID risks are higher than mask risks
Anti-massage protests are taking place against the backdrop of a steady increase in morbidity worldwide, including in Russia.
The Moscow operation records the increase in coronavirus disease.
This trend is also confirmed by the trend in hospitalizations of patients with coronavirus infection.
Over the past week, the number of patients admitted daily has increased by about 30 per cent.
It should be noted that in part this also happens because many have become more active in public life, have stopped respecting social distance, neglect wearing masks and using gloves, "says"  "chief physician of GKB  15 named Filatov Valery Vechorko.
Mr. Vectorco points out that medical disposable masks, which are now recommended to be worn on the street, perform a barrier function.
They protect the saliva from microdroplets when it 's cleaned, when it talks, when it' s in close contact.
If used sporadically, there are no unpleasant consequences, the doctor is sure, and the wearing of a mask for long periods is not required: the use of protective devices is necessary in places of large crowds, such as transport or shops.
Commenting on Mr. Saversky's statement on the harm of masks to people with chronic diseases, Valery Vechorko points out that patients with chronic respiratory diseases, on the contrary, it is especially important to wear protective devices: "It is they who are particularly likely to carry the disease with a complicated flow of coronavirus infection.
Thus, the risk of adverse disease in these groups is much higher than the potential risk of wearing a mask. "
Meanwhile, a dubious open letter from Belgian doctors and citizens to the government claiming that restrictive measures do more harm than good is gaining popularity on social media (the letter has been circulated by several sources, such as The American Institute of Stress website, no reference to the authors of the letter, suggesting its possible unreliability).
Russian doctors warn that the development of the situation will depend on us, on our awareness, responsibility and adherence to medical recommendations.
Valery Vechorko is confident: "Now the wearing of masks, especially in public places and transport, is becoming a necessity, as is the protection of hands and keeping social distance.
As far as possible, the number of social contacts should be reduced without special need.
The washing of mucous membranes with piped water or isotonic solution of sea salt, which is in the pharmacy in the form of spray, is not prohibited.
This attitude will protect not only ourselves but also older people who are at risk for health. "
Natalia Udovichenko
Comments