All "real" COVID conspiracy theories: where did coronavirus come from and why did it come to humanity?
According to an old good tradition dating back to antiquity, any attack by humanity tends to explain one official version and a bunch of unofficial ones.
Here we will get acquainted with the conspiracy theories of origin of COVID-19.
Interestingly, in the course of the current pandemic, I see not so much talk about "where" the new coronavirus came from, but attempts to explain "why" humanity or some of the creators of the virus need it.
We will all consider conspiracy theories immediately, because most of them try to answer both questions immediately: "Where?"
and "why?
We'll just drop the "virus is an alien gift" or "it was thrown out of the future to avoid overpopulation of the planet."
A good conspiracy theory should still look as scientific as possible.
So far the most common version - the virus has been artificially created.
The author of these lines is an educational biologist, and because of this education itself does not believe (almost) in the theory of the artificial origin of the virus.
Moreover, none of the biologists I know in Belarus believe in the "laboratory" hypothesis either.
However, a version of the origin of the virus from a secret laboratory is the most popular since the beginning of this story.
Question only: from what exactly?
It's Americans versus Chinese.
From the very beginning, when the COVID-19 outbreak was only in China, many experts from high-tech countries like Iran, Russia, Venezuela, and even Zimbabwe have argued amicably that coronavirus was created by the Americans - specifically to destroy China as their main competitor on the planet.
In 2015, reports of the creation of a coronavirus by Americans during fly-by-mouse experiments were very successful.
Not surprisingly, at the height of the pandemic, the "American" version of the COVID-19 was heavily promoted by the Chinese themselves.
But the US has been particularly fervently accused of Iran.
Former Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad sent a letter to the United Nations on 9 March stating that "it is clear to the world that the mutated coronavirus was produced in a laboratory" and that the COVID-19 is "a new weapon for establishing and / or maintaining political and economic supremacy on the world stage."
Earlier, the well-known Iranian cleric Seyed Mohammad Saidi accused the US president of targeting the city of Qom with a coronavirus "to harm its culture and honour."
Saidi has said that Trump is fulfilling his promise to strike Iranian cultural sites if the Iranians retaliate for the US airstrike, which killed Quds Force commander Qasim Sulaymani.
Iranian television spokesman Ali Akbar Rafipur stated that the coronavirus is part of a "hybrid war" program that the US is waging against Iran and China.
Brigadier General Golam Reza Jalali, head of the Iranian Civil Defense Organization, stated that the coronavirus was probably a biological attack on China and Iran for economic purposes.
Hossein Salami, head of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC), stated that the outbreak of coronavirus in Iran could be caused by a US "biological attack."
Several Iranian politicians, including top leader Ali Khamenei, Hossein Amir-Abdollahian, Rasul Falahati, Alireza Panahian, Abolfazl Hasanbeiji, and Gholamali Jafarzade Imanabadi, have also made similar statements.
They're Chinese. They're just blind.
So far, the COVID-19 version remains on the surface at the Virological Laboratory in Wuhan, the original site of the pandemic.
This version is "semi-officially" supported by US, EU, and many other countries around the world.
Indeed, there are too many coincidences: the incomprehensible laboratory, traditionally closed to such matters in China, the outbreak in Wuhan, and so on.
If something looks like a cat, walks like a cat, flies like a cat, and catches mice like a cat, it's a cat.
A few days ago, the 2008 Nobel Prize laureate in medicine, virologist Luke Montagne, made a statement claiming that a new type of coronavirus was developed in a Chinese laboratory.
Montague gave an interview to Pourquoi docteur, in which he stated that he did not believe in the official version that the virus was first detected in the wild animal market in Wuhan. "
COVID-19 was developed at the biological laboratory in Wuhan.
This laboratory has been specializing in all coronavirus infections since the early 2000s.
, "said the scientist.
In an interview with CNEWS, Montagne also said:
This virus didn 't come naturally, it' s the work of professionals.
I do not know the purpose for which this virus was produced.
The virus was created artificially and accidentally released from a laboratory as a result of attempts to create an AIDS vaccine.
A number of American media outlets also claim that a "zero patient" with coronavirus was allegedly an employee of a laboratory in Wuhan.
I mean, an ungrateful bat or a pangolin is not here.
The virus that went to kill all over the world could have come out of the Chinese lab.
Prior to this, in early April, American intelligence suspected China of underreporting the virus, and the White House repeatedly publicly accused China of concealing the scale of the problem and slow exchange of information.
He recently demanded that China and other countries be more transparent with regard to statistics.
Transparency was also demanded of Beijing in France and Germany.
Beijing officially refutes all these assumptions.
There is no evidence to support the claim that the coronavirus was artificially created, the Chinese Foreign Ministry official Zhao Lixian said on 16 April.
China's Ministry of Foreign Affairs also refutes allegations of concealment, stating that China has held an open and responsible position on the data on the coronavirus epidemic from the outset.
The Economist Magazine.
Photo: economist.com
US President Donald Trump commented on Fox News' accusations of China's responsibility for distributing the coronavirus:
If they are consciously responsible, the consequences will naturally be for China.
If it was a mistake, it was a mistake.
You're talking about potential lives (possible victims of the coronavirus) that no one has seen since 1917.
With such remarks, Donald Trump is likely to pave the way for real punishment for China.
The possibility of the world's leading countries taking collective action against China, demanding compensation for rebuilding their economies, is already under discussion.
That is about $50 trillion.
Clearly, China will not recognize anything and will not pay anyone anything.
But then the US can simply cancel its debt to China - and China is still the main holder of US Treasury securities.
This is gonna be fun.
This is Bill Gates with his wife against humanity.
Bill and Melinda Gates' husband and wife have long been accused of conspiring to destroy most of humanity in order for the "golden billion" to live well.
Now let's remember that the foundation founded by the spouses is doing biomedical research...
Personally I don't believe this, but Windows must die anyway.
Photo: flickr.com / Becker1999
It's a liquid.
Where are we going without them?
He invented coronavirus to control the world.
It is not clear which are the Rothschilds, the Rockefeller, the Vanderbilt or the Bilderberg Club.
But we know the point: it 's designed to sterilize non-Jews with a vaccine, yes!
5G Wine Technology
It 's amazing how quickly fake news about the impact of cell phones on the coronavirus pandemic spread on the Web.
As a result, several dozen cellular towers (and not only 5G) were set on fire in the UK and then in the Netherlands.
And I 've seen leaflets accusing 5G of epidemics, and in Ukraine, where this communication technology is still being prepared for launch in the near future.
In the name of economics and its common sense
The most beautiful COVID conspiracy theory I 've ever met is so highly intelligent and unconventional that I want to applaud it.
I'll start from a distance.
The Moscow colleague in his telegram-channel quotes the professor, Doctor of Physical and Mathematical Sciences, in the field of modelling nonlinear processes of the Institute of Applied Mathematics of the Russian Academy of Sciences.
Keldysha Georgi Malinetsky:
We will live in a new world.
Let 's look at this post-industrial world.
Out of 100 people, 2 work in agriculture, feeding themselves and everyone else.
Ten people work in industry, 13 in management.
What should the other 75 do?
This is being addressed in the current crisis.
There are two ways to deal with these people.
The first is that these people are not needed.
This is a world where there are countries that will be the brains of the world, and there are countries that will be the workers of the world - now China, then India and so on.
What about unnecessary people?
The COVID-19 mission is to "push" humanity out of the post-industrial economy.
To return it to normal common sense, with the real sector rather than the service sector dominating.
Robotics can wait, let people work.
Because the world economy will not survive the introduction of universal basic income - the population is growing, not at the expense of the most hardworking sectors of society.
The proof that COVID-19 hits precisely on the most modern economic and social forms, Bloomberg cites.
According to the agency, the United States' gygonomics industries were hit harder by the Great Lockdown than the rest.
According to the ADP Research Institute, about 25 million Americans (one in six workers) work in gygonomics.
Photo: flickr.com / Paul Weaver
These are the same precariats - the new working class, people who do not have permanent and stable employment contracts and cannot expect a pension from the employer.
The explosive class: in the event of a crisis and income collapse, they really have nothing to lose - not even the infamous "chains."
So perhaps the COVID-19 super-task is to bring social and economic relations on the planet back into the realm of common sense.
And then it doesn 't matter, we created the virus artificially or nature brought it to us on the wings of bats.