Coronavirus and the "pangolin effect": increasing interaction with wildlife poses threats to health, biosafety and global security
Everything in the world is interconnected.
According to chaos theory, a winged butterfly in New Mexico could cause a hurricane in China.
But in the chain reaction created by the appearance of COVID-19 (coronavirus), there is hardly any chance of the butterfly effect.
A much clearer explanation is needed: interconnected human actions can have extremely serious consequences.
Wildlife and emerging infectious diseases
Scientists have yet to come to a definitive conclusion, but they have no doubt about one fact: SARS-CoV-2 originated in the wild, crossed the species barrier, and passed to humans.
Currently, the main suspects are bats of the genus Podocarpus.
It was originally thought that these carriers were pangolins feeding on scaly ants, which are trafficked for their meat and for scaly, which is then used as a supposedly valuable medicine.
Human contacts with intermediate carriers contributed to the transmission of the pathogen, causing a pandemic that, at the time of writing, had covered more than 140 countries, infected more than 150,000 people and caused incalculable damage.
Enabling conditions for new deadly pathogens
The emergence and development of the coronavirus pandemic should not surprise us.
The cause of SARS in 2003 was transferred to a person from civettes, which were sold on the market as pets and delicacies.
In 2012, camels were the source of the Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS) virus.
Avian influenza, Nipah virus, Ebola virus, HIV... all these and many other new infectious diseases (NCDs) have emerged in animals and have been passed on to humans - this phenomenon is called zoonosis.
It is estimated that more than 60% of all NCDs in the world are zoonotic infections, and the vast majority (more than 70%) of these zoonotic infections occur in the wild.
The outbreak of the coronavirus demonstrates that zoonotic infections occurring in the wild pose a major threat to public health, biosafety and even global security.
The term "pangolin effect" can be used to describe an inevitable, disproportionate outcome of events that began relatively modestly and could be prevented: a virus that exists in a natural host in the wild causes a pandemic because of a long chain of interrelated events that allowed it to spread around the world.
First, the high risk of human exposure to pathogens is a factor in the widespread spread of the virus.
Humanity 's anthropogenic activities are contributing to the gradual increase in human exposure to pathogens that humans have not previously encountered and are therefore not prepared to confront.
There are two ways to deal with these pathogens:
over-approaching wildlife
or
Too close to the wild itself.
Second, globalization is another factor in the spread of the virus: the pathogen is transmitted to humans, infects sufficient numbers of people, and then infected people spread the virus around the globe - thanks to international flights, cruises, and global value chains.
Overcoming wildlife: wildlife trade
According to some estimates, the illegal trade in wildlife is the fourth largest crime in the world, after drug trafficking, smuggling and human trafficking.
The CITES Convention regulates legal trade in wildlife, but its purpose is to ensure that such trade does not threaten the survival of wildlife.
Both legal and illegal trafficking operate as huge conveyor belts: they involve large-scale transportation of wildlife (and their pathogens) over long distances, enhance the animals' contact with humans, and significantly increase the chances of transmitting pathogens.
Most likely, human contact with animals infected with the COVID virus occurred precisely as a result of illegal trade (if, after all, it is the pangolins that are the intermediate carriers of the virus, then one can speak of a certain irony, since the pangolins are the most widely sold mammals in the world: all eight known species of pangolins are included in the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species, three of which are classified as "endangered").
Wild animals are sold for human consumption, for body parts, for use as pets, for use in traditional medicine, and so on.
In many parts of the world, the consumption and use of wild animals for various purposes is a deeply rooted cultural tradition.
China 's swift ban on trade in all wild animals for human consumption is an example of how severely restricting human interaction with wildlife is a critical measure to prevent the emergence of new types of NCDs.
There is also a need to improve hygiene at all stages of the legal trade in wild animals and to establish strict and safe conditions for the trade and consumption of these animals.
These measures are generally poorly developed in many countries that have effective veterinary services for domestic animals, but do not have sufficiently developed and well-functioning wildlife control systems.
Excessive approach to wildlife itself:
Habitat degradation
Biodiversity provides us with an important service that many of us are unaware of: it curbs diseases.
Natural biodiversity contributes to limiting the exposure of many pathogens and mitigating the effects of such exposure through a dilution or buffer effect, thereby reducing the potential for transmission of pathogens to humans.
Deforestation and land-use change, habitat fragmentation, invasion of nature, rapid population growth and urbanization are just some of the environmental, behavioural and socio-economic factors contributing to increased human exposure to pathogens and increased exposure.
An additional known factor in the spread of NCDs is climate change, which creates new opportunities for the spread of pathogens, accelerates the emergence of invasive species and changes the habitats of natural species.
Using these factors, scientists identify areas of high risk for zoonotic NCDs.
Studies have shown that these risks are increasing in land-use change regions of the tropical forest, as well as in areas with significant wildlife biodiversity (mammal species richness).
It is also known from China and Southeast Asia.
Anthropogenic activities remove the buffer effect of biodiversity and ecosystems and increase the risk of a new pandemic.
Breaking these trends is a global and more pressing public health challenge than ever before.
Single health care
Most of the attention and expenditure related to NCDs is directed towards people-specific interventions (emergency preparedness and response, public health), but more attention should be paid to addressing the main drivers of NCDs.
The "One Health" approach recognizes the relationship between human and animal health and the relationship between their health and the well-being of the ecosystems in which they exist.
The recently announced decision of the World Bank to provide US $12 billion to the United States in the form of a global loan of US $1 billion.
The US to help countries take action against COVID-19 gives us a chance to develop a comprehensive set of actions that will protect human, animal and environmental health.
Environmental health is generally the weakest link.
As development specialists, we should engage with the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources, wildlife departments, research institutions, NGOs and civil society to address gaps in wildlife health control and disease communication systems, enhance veterinary practices in wildlife trade, health standards, wildlife trade policies and practices, and communicate risk information.
Coronavirus continues to spread, and urgent measures to promote environmental health - an integral part of protecting our own health, as well as to severely limit human interaction with wildlife - are more important than ever.
To prevent the next pangolin effect, it is necessary to begin to fully curb illegal wildlife trade and to improve regulation of legitimate trade, to take measures to improve biodiversity and habitat conservation, and to ensure the availability of sustainable ecosystem services.
We have a big window of opportunity, but it will close soon.
* * Daniel Mira Salama, Senior Environmental Specialist, World Bank Beijing