Channel One was serious about Bill Gates' plan to wipe out a part of humanity.
The authors of Man and Law, which aired on Channel One, dedicated a 16-minute story titled "Trojan Horse of the World Pandemic," focusing on the role of Microsoft founder Bill Gates in spreading the coronavirus around the world.
The program's creators restated unconfirmed conspiracy theories that Gates wanted to exterminate part of humanity.
It is published on the First Channel website.
Director Alexey Pymanov explained that he was prepared to talk seriously about the conspiracy theory, as it was "too painful news."
The story begins with the story of Event 201, an exercise that examines the impact of the pandemic on the world's population and the global economy.
It was held at Johns Hopkins University on October 18, 2019, with the participation of the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation and the World Economic Forum.
Blogger Vlad Kopylkov commented that Event 201 is "one in one what happens today" due to the spread of the coronavirus.
Throughout the story, the programme's correspondents have regularly spoken out in defense of those who support the conspiracy against Gates.
In particular, she described Gates' efforts to vaccinate people in Africa and Asia from various diseases and the resulting side effects, including death.
And there's good Dr. Bill Gates.
It turns out that a billionaire is sponsoring the World Health Organization (WHO) to reduce the world's population, "said a voice behind the scenes.
The story also featured a statement by Microsoft founder in 2010, in which he pointed out that the development of vaccination, health care and maternity centers would reduce population growth by 10-15 per cent.
"Both are, roughly speaking, genocidal," said the correspondent.
She also noted that Gates' "defenders" launched a media campaign, insisting that "they misunderstood him."
At the end of the video, the audience is asked to fantasize about the world with the vaccines Gates is investing in, and Kopylov's opinion is about the "digital slavery" that the entrepreneur supposedly seeks.
If we develop the theory further, says the correspondent of "Man and Law," then the next step of "shadow government" is to chip humanity.
According to the author of the story, the chipping will allow disagreeable people to be cut off from the system and left without a livelihood.
There are some well-known supporters of this theory, the correspondent continues.
An example is the post of former tennis player Marat Safin.
In conclusion, she explained that Gates' role was only "one of the versions," and that conspiracy theory could be "deliberately promoted by someone."
The theory of Gates' role has been popular since the spread of the new virus.
The disease was first reported by the Chinese authorities, and cases were reported in Wuhan.
The disease soon spread to other parts of the world.
However, there is some evidence in the conspiracy theory that coronavirus is somehow related to the creator of Microsoft Corporation.
According to one, the coronavirus is allegedly patented by the Pirbraith Institute, which is partially funded by the Gates Foundation.