Therapy of Despair.
Does the blood plasma of those treated with coronavirus help the seriously ill?
In less than four months since the outbreak, the number of confirmed cases of Covid-19 has already exceeded 2.5 million, and neither vaccines nor medicines for coronavirus infection are available and are not expected in the near future.
In the absence of effective therapy, doctors around the world, including in Russia, are trying to save the seriously ill by transfusing blood plasma from patients who are already sick.
In Moscow, additional payments were even introduced for such donors.
However, the efficacy of this treatment has not been proven, clinical trials of the therapy have only just begun, and medical experts sometimes make conflicting recommendations for its application.
The BBC's Russian service examines why doctors take risks by resorting to experimental drugs, how justified such experiments are, and whether blood transfusion can help combat the pandemic.
In theory, plasma treatment seems simple and logical.
The cured patients won the disease precisely because their immune system learned to fight infection by developing antibodies - special proteins that neutralize the virus.
These proteins (immunoglobulins) are found in the blood, more precisely, dissolved in its liquid part - plasma.
And in theory, if you take them from a healthy donor and you introduce them to a sick patient, they have to fight the virus in the new host in the same way.
This method has long been widely used in medicine to prevent viral infections.
Perhaps the best-known example is the rabies vaccine that is used to kill wild animals.
The virus is neutralized by antibodies to the horse's blood, which prevent the development of a fatal disease (almost 100% chance of death if infected).
The prospect of equally successful treatment of coronavirus infection sounds very tempting.
This method is relatively inexpensive, and there should be no shortage in the theory of donors: almost 700,000 people have been discharged from hospitals worldwide, which are believed to be infected with Covid-19 (about 4,000 in Russia).
"To date, this is the only way we can act on coronavirus by directly blocking it," said BBC Doctor of Medical Sciences, Head of Department of Pharmacology, Clinical Pharmacology and Evidence Medicine.
At the same time, he stressed that in the case of Covid-19, plasma transfer should be treated with extreme caution.
In Moscow, three patients have already recovered after plasma transfusion of previously infected donors from Covid-19, Deputy Mayor of Russian capital Anastasia Rakova reported on Tuesday.
According to her, two of them were discharged from the hospital 10 days after the procedure and the third two weeks later.
All of them are in good condition now.
We hope that the number of those who have recovered will increase, and this method of treatment will help us cope with the coronavirus pandemic, "Rakova said.
The use of plasma in patients with epilepsy is also being studied in Saint Petersburg.
Whether such plans exist in other regions is unknown.
In Moscow plasma for transfusion is accepted in two places: in the Research Institute of Emergency Medicine.
N.V. Skifsov and City Clinical Hospital No. 52, where the BBC confirmed that Covid-19 patients had been treated on several occasions by means of plasma transfusion of the patients.
The government of Moscow issued a decree that blood donors with antibodies to Covid-19 would receive 1,250 roubles (about $16) for every 150 ml plasma.
It can be delivered from 300 to 600 ml at a time.
Prior to becoming a donor, former patients must provide a medical report on the contracted Covid-19 infection.
Donors should also have negative HIV, hepatitis B and C tests, haemograms, blood biochemistry data, and antibody studies specific to SARS-CoV-2.
The Moscow City Council website states that transfusing donor plasma is "one of the most effective treatments for coronavirus in the absence of a vaccine."
After the procedure, patients with coronavirus feel better and have no side effects.
"Despite its apparent efficacy and relative simplicity, the therapeutic effect of this drug can, in my view, be somewhat exaggerated," said the BBC Doctor of Medical Sciences, in the recent past having been the recipient of blood transfusions from the Scientific Center for Cardiovascular Surgery.
Bakuleva Rachik Grigoryantz.
The efficacy and safety of a particular drug or procedure must be proven by appropriate clinical trials - and not yet in the case of new coronavirus.
All the publications on this subject in scientific journals are nothing more than an attempt by doctors to share the experience of treating literally a couple of three patients.
In order to comply with all the necessary formalities, a sufficient number of heavy Covid-19 patients already connected to the IVL should be collected, randomly split into two groups, one to transfuse donor plasma with antibodies and the other to a placebo solution.
It is only by comparing the outcomes of treatment for both groups that the scientific conclusion can be drawn as to how effective and safe such treatment is.
This is the only recognized way.
However, with the new virus pandemic, such experiments are not possible.
Injecting a control group of severely ill patients instead of a real placebo plasma may deprive them of their only chance of recovery.
The only acceptable option is when the patient is already in intensive care, but his condition continues to deteriorate.
Then you can try to save the unreliable patient in an experimental way that is not officially recommended.
According to Grigoryantz, transfusing plasma makes sense precisely at the last critical stage of the disease, when "the effect of transfusing just plasma - with all its benefits that it carries in it fundamentally - far outweighs the effect of experimental antiviral treatment of patients."
That's what I'm puzzled about when I see the big promotion of using antivirus plasma.
I am convinced that today the problem of deficiency of blood factors and components is much more significant than the experimental use of immunized plasma, "said the expert.
However, Grigoryantz notes that a large-scale application of plasma therapy is unlikely to be possible in any case.
Only 30% of patients have sufficient antibody concentrations in their blood, and not all are ready to donate.
Pavel Madonov, on the other hand, is convinced that, ideally - after clinical trials - antiviral plasma will be needed not just for critically ill patients, but for those who have just begun to develop the disease.
Fighting the virus, he said, makes sense when it just breaks out of the respiratory system into the general bloodstream.
"The virus is only dangerous with complications," he explains.
- The very fact of its presence in the body is not so dangerous, but it creates specific complications: severe inflammation of the lung tissue, which causes acute respiratory failure.
As the court would say, the virus has absolutely indirect guilt here - he didn't do it, the patient's body did it itself, in response to his attack. "
When the patient developed respiratory failure, it was too late to fight the virus, the professor concluded, "He did his job."
But his main hope is that a special vaccine will be developed for the virus.
A vaccine is a training of the body to protect.
She warns: as soon as the guest is not invited, he is tied up, put in a car, taken to the police.
And antibodies are already a fait accompli.
In medicine, this method of treatment is called the therapy of despair, "the scientist emphasizes.