The United States paid grants to the Institute of Virology in Wuhan and bought parts of domestic animals in China,
Photo: rbc.ru
The National Institute of Health awarded grants to two animal laboratories at the Virology Institute in Wuhan, and the U.S. Department of Agriculture purchased parts of domestic animals in China that were then used for research, says The Washington Examiner, a conservative Republican-oriented American weekly.
According to a publication referring to the White Coat Waste Project, as early as 2015 the US Department of Agriculture purchased parts of cats and dogs in China that scientists needed to study toxoplasmosis.
It is believed that the animals came from the same markets that may have been the source of the new SARS-Cov-2 coronavirus, which is now being called for to be banned after the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic.
The publication claimed that the National Institute of Health (NIH) had donated money to two laboratories of the Virology Institute in Wuhan, which were conducting animal experiments.
One of the studies that was done there was the study of coronaviruses related to what caused the SARS outbreak in the early 2000s.
They were found in bats living in a cave in Yunnan province, located more than a thousand kilometers from Wuhan.
The Washington Examiner criticizes the practice of scientific cooperation with China at the expense of the US budget and notes that some members of the US Congress and Senate suggest that the coronavirus may have accidentally broken out of one of the two laboratories in the city.
"This could explain the Chinese government's panic attempts to conceal the outbreak," said Senator Ted Cruz (Republican Party) in an interview.
The American newspaper The New York Post recalls two instances when a SARS coronavirus "escaped" from a laboratory in Beijing.
Both occurred as early as April 2004.
The New York Post also reported on China's alleged practice of selling experimental wild animals to the same animal markets.
This claim is repeated in The Washington Examiner and the Daily Mail, which also notes that bats living in southern China, more than a thousand kilometres from Wuhan, are the source of the infection.
Shi Zhenli spent many years studying bat viruses in southern China.
The publication quotes Deputy Director of Virology Wuhan Shi Zhenli, who claimed that she "couldn't close her eyes" until she was convinced that the virus had not escaped from her lab, comparing the SARS-Cov-2 genome to the coronavirus genomes stored in the test tubes.
The scientist also noted that her research indicated that an outbreak of a new coronavirus was more likely to occur in the subtropics, where coronavirus-carrying bats live.
According to the Daily Mail, Shi Zhenli was able to decipher the SARS-Cov-2 genome as early as 2 January, but did not publish it publicly until 10 January.
This was done by the staff of another Shanghai-based laboratory, who were able to study coronavirus from a patient who had contracted COVID-19.
The South China Morning Post reported that the laboratory was closed for "reorganization" two days later.
We have received no explanation as to why the laboratory was closed for reorganization.
We have submitted four requests for reinstatement, but have not received a response, "a publication by a staff member of the Shanghai Public Health Center.
According to the Daily Mail, Shi Zhenli, in one of her latest online lectures, said that her team had discovered evidence of human-to-human transmission of the virus as early as 14 January.
However, China did not officially announce this until 20 January.
"I am disgusted to hear that the US government has paid for dangerous and brutal experiments at the Wuhan Institute of Virology that could have led to the spread of coronavirus around the world, as well as research at other Chinese laboratories over which the US authorities cannot exercise any oversight," Washington Examiner Congressman Matt Gaetz (Republican Party), who previously led a campaign against government buying pet parts in China.
As previously reported
Focus:
Scientists from Cambridge have stated that coronavirus is constantly mutating to overcome the resilience of the immune system in different parts of the world.
In Iceland a patient was found with two strains of coronavirus.