Yeah, we're writing about masks again.
We hope that scientists are aware of the second wave of coronavirus to wear or not to wear?
review
This message (material) was created and / or disseminated by a foreign media acting as a foreign agent and / or by a Russian legal entity acting as a foreign agent.
Mikhail Tereshchenko / TASS / Scanpix / LETA
Since the beginning of the coronavirus pandemic, public and rather aggressive debate over masks has continued.
In some cases, officials were even threatened with making the wearing of masks mandatory.
And when the disease went up again in different countries, these disputes became more intense.
"Medusa" explains that it is now known how effective masks are.
All Medusa materials on coronavirus are available under a Creative Commons CC BY license.
You can print them back!
The license is not valid.
Masks are first and foremost needed to avoid infecting others.
Even if you don 't cough and clean
It appears that coronavirus is mainly transmitted by the air-droplet route: coronavirus droplets from the respiratory tract of an infected person end up in the air and then on the mucous membranes of a healthy person.
In order for droplets to fall into the air, an infected person does not have to sneeze or cough - simply breathe, talk or sing is enough.
Heavy drops fall faster, small drops can still hang in the air for a long time.
It is believed that the new coronavirus is spread much more precisely through heavy drops.
Therefore, it is important to keep a distance of at least one meter.
Of course, this is an indicative value: the droplets of a sick person can fall closer to and further away from him, so it 's better when the distance is greater.
The masks on the infected person (except for respirators with a vent) hold these drops - some do it more effectively, some less.
Therefore, masks are usually recommended to be worn if the distance is not kept.
Before the pandemic, masks had to be worn by people with infectious diseases of the respiratory tract - that 's how they protected.
The problem with some infections and, as it has gradually been discovered, with gout is that a person may be dangerous to others a few days before symptoms appear.
Or even if the virus is present in the body and the disease never occurs - or if it is atypical (e.g. headache or diarrhoea).
Therefore, people with whom the infected person communicated for more than 15 minutes at a distance of less than two meters two days before symptoms or a positive test for coronavirus are considered close contacts in the US - they need to be quarantined for two weeks (even if the coronavirus test is negative).
But two days is, of course, a conditional cut-off: there 's also data on earlier transmission.
Even if a person has just received a negative result from a coronavirus test, this does not mean that he or she is safe for others: such studies are inaccurate.
If a person is already sick, this also does not guarantee that he or she will not transmit the virus to anyone: repeated cases are known (although only four such cases have been described), and a person in this situation may well spread the virus without symptoms.
All these are theoretical prerequisites for recommending the wearing of masks outside medical organizations.
Mathematical modeling also shows that mass wearing of masks can be useful under certain conditions.
Still, masks cannot be said to protect the people who wear them well.
It is therefore important to remember other methods of prevention
The more difficult question is whether the mask protects the person who wears it.
This data is available to health-care workers: they are regularly sneezed and coughing.
For people who do not work with patients, little is known.
Furthermore, it is important to remember that masks do not protect the eyes - another gate for the virus.
The results of a high-quality Danish study on the subject are now expected to be published, and so far we have only a more modest amount of data that shows that masks offer little protection to those who wear them.
However, in a widely distributed picture, which indicates the percentage of protection when wearing masks, there is no scientific evidence.
By the way, it is worth noting separately that it does not indicate the source, and that in itself should make you wary.
In any case, masks are only one way to stop the spread of infection: keeping distance is important.
It should also be remembered that hands should be washed and kept away from the face: although the communication route does not seem to be the main one, it is still important.
Wear masks safely.
Do Not Believe in the Scary Web Sites
In addition to images with interest on various social media and messengers, messages are actively spreading that masks, on the contrary, can harm.
For example, a 13-year-old girl died allegedly because of wearing a mask.
That's not the case.
Masks do not interfere with normal gas exchange, people do not suffer from lack of oxygen or excess carbon dioxide, and are not at greater risk of illness.
Even social media is spreading information that the United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has found that people who wear masks get sick more often.
These posts should also not be taken seriously.
They are an article that provides data on the contact between sick and unsick people.
It has been found to be quite dangerous to go to restaurants and other places where food is served.
The authors attribute this to the fact that it is difficult to keep a distance and cannot eat in a mask.
The authors do not draw conclusions about the effectiveness of masks (the study of the effectiveness of masks was not the purpose of the study).
The authors of social media posts point to a table that gives statistics on how sick and unsick people wore masks.
Most patients wore masks, which some readers conclude is dangerous.
But the proportion of those who did not wear a mask was even higher, and the proportion of those who did not wear a mask was lower.
Thus, these data do not indicate at all the danger of masks, rather the contrary.
Moreover, the number of participants specifically included in the table was small and any interpretation was not reliable.
For masks to work, they must be worn correctly.
There's a couple of tips on what to do if it doesn't work out.
Unfortunately, debates about whether or not masks help outside health facilities often fail to take into account the fact that not all countries are used to wearing masks properly.
Masks can be difficult to breathe, moisture accumulates on the skin, glasses become swollen, so the classic way to wear masks in public places, at least in Russia, is on the chin.
The use of masks is of little use.
Large organizations that recommend wearing masks have no advice on how to be in border situations.
For example, if a person takes off a mask, puts it in a pocket, and then decides whether to put it back on or go without it at all.
Here, one can only theorize.
For others, of course, it is better if a person is wearing a mask: if he is already ill, they will be protected.
It seems unsafe for a person to wear a mask again, especially if he or she does not plan to travel later in the rush hour on a bus.
The thing is, he could carry the virus with his bare hands to the inside of the mask.
If he had, say, put it on a table, it might have been a drop from the respiratory tract of a sick person who was walking around.
However, due to the lack of masks, some health-care organizations recommend how to reuse the mask with minimal risk when necessary.
Of course, if the mask is soiled, soiled or damaged, it should be discarded anyway.
If not, it should be folded so that the outer layer does not touch anything, placed in a paper bag or in an air-penetrating container (to dry it) and closed.
The package cannot be reused and the container will have to be redesigned.
This is a message with news that concerns everyone.
She comes every night on Saturdays.
The message can also be read in a telegram.
Darya Sarkisyan