United Nations expert: Americans developed coronavirus as early as 2015
Hello!
The categorization system of the Living Journal considered that your record could be categorized as: Coronavirus, Medicine, Politics.
If you think the system is wrong, write about it in response to this comment.
Your feedback will help make the system more accurate.
Frank, JW team.
I didn't have time to write - and I was already bored.
The first step in the development of the vaccine was announced by a German company.........
They tried to buy it back, but the owner refused.
Why would they do that if they have one?
They don't have their own.
Vaccine trials have now begun in China and at the New Siberian Vector.
There is no vaccine.
Salem, TN.
The Americans were the first to shout.
More than a week ago.
And that's two.
We'll see.
So far, the Chinese have the greatest experience in fighting the epidemic.
Russia is demonstrating the best preventive measures so far.
Just because Chinese measures - they are no longer preventive... Given mutual cooperation, as well as a high level of motivation, combined with the availability of resources - truly effective measures and drugs should be expected.
If it is to be said that "whoever gets up first gets up first" - so far, Chinese or Russians have all the prerequisites for their drugs to be the most popular and cheap on the market.
That is, even a tapak situation can play against Americans.
Moreover, the use of coronavirus by Americans could only be justified in one case.
If the Chinese didn 't do it, we' d see an apocalypse now, provided only the Americans had the vaccine.
We see the Germans on their heels, and we see Russia, which for the time being is silent - but it is always silent first, then silent, then silent, and then what the hell!
Finally, there is another consideration.
If coronavirus is artificially created, then it has no natural carrier.
This means that it will either remain in the human population or die permanently and irrevocably.
In the first case, Americans lose the market; in the second, they simply waste money.
Yes, Putin speaks with all his eyes.
Even Katyn slipped his toes.
Not to mention support for the US Fed.
March 18 2020, 09: 31: 25 UTC
Nikulin added that proof of US involvement in the spread of the infection would be the fact that American scientists are the first to develop a vaccine against the new virus.
It's fiction, not proof.
The argument of "bullshit" is the most convincing.
Retrieved 2015-06-07. "https: / / www.nature.com / news / engineered-bat-virus-stirs-debate-over-risky-research-1.18787."
Thank you for the helpful addition:)
Hello!
Your record has reached the top 25 popular LiveJournal records for Ukraine.
Read more about the rating in
I can and will not be surprised if it ever does.
You can see that Americans have been sneaking around, sneaking around in different countries to start a war and save their economies, as they usually do, but they have not been able to exterminate others in the form of a full-scale war either.
In this way, they decided to drag everyone, especially China, with them.
I was here, by implication, reading about the speech by the director of the American CDC in the U.S. Congress.
In the 2019-2020 season, the flu killed over 21,000 people in the United States.
And no drumming and no fanfare, that we all die!
In addition, 100 people were injured in the two towns.
Guard and Army.
WHO official figures.
They say that about 650,000 people die each year from influenza.
An average of 1,800 people per day...
And no epidemics, pandemics, academies and any other demiurge... the drums are silent, although the numbers are higher than the corona and the viruses!
Yeah, I, like everyone, read about the difference between flu and coronavirus.
Also, I read that most common cold viruses are also coronaviruses... You know, if you compare the panic hysteria (or hysteria) with the facts, I don't get the strong feeling that this is a continuation of the history of Ukraine-2014.
Then, the country's half jumped in hysteria: "Russia attacked us - billions of Buryat armored-horse militia - we will all die!"
For the people of Ukraine everything looked reliable and convincing, who doubted, that fool!
Although, we looked at it with our eyes wide open and our mouth wide open.
It is possible that the same (or about) guys who studied the results, did homework and now applied this technology throughout Western civilization.
The half of the world jumps off with the cry "The evil virus has hit!
It's time to buy toilet paper so it's not shameful to die with a clean cunt! "
And if you just think a little bit critically, compare the facts, but you can see gross inconsistencies and thick hints at the economic underpinnings of this activity...
I think that hysteria has primarily economic causes.
Given the resources involved, a historically global outcome (e.g., debt cancellation for all countries, including the US) is expected.
It has always been said that only war can cure such debts and holes in the economy.
Or is it that everyone has found consensus in this scenario, that everything will be destroyed without war, and that they want to implement it now, before it is too late?
Or is it the financial elite doing it to buy world assets cheaply for accumulated capital?
Maybe.
Today, in the absence of reliable information, this is all conspiracy theory and speculation.
But logically, this theory has a right to life.
That makes sense.
Go on, IHO.
The United States is at war with China.
There is a burning desire to start, but there is no possibility, unacceptable losses.
Therefore, they decided to use biological weapons.
Which is hard to prove.
All charges can be denied and victimized.
And in fact, to test in combat, as they used to do with nuclear.
The main goal is to destroy the enemy's economy.
After the use of biological weapons in combat, the Kremlin has flouted the Constitution.
I guess they have negative scenarios, so they're in a hurry.
I suspect that the US's involvement in the alleged Chinese virus pandemic is the same as its involvement in the collapse of its own TWC buildings allegedly due to an Islamic terrorist attack.
Find out who benefits from this, and who benefits from the US as a power in global civilization.................
Power is interested in strengthening the primary world order, and to do so it no longer needs the same rate of economic growth that has been dispersed in the competition of peoples for world domination.
And you don 't need an army of participants in that economy.
Hence Greta and the coronavirus.
_ Select
March 18 2020, 19: 38: 20 UTC
Quite.
User kauri _ 39 referred to your account in his account "About the source of the corona virus" in the context of: [...] and coronavirus.
This is my comment from here: https: / / diana-mihailova.livejournal.com / 465650.html [...]
And where exactly did he say that?