Conspiracy theory
Who "created" COVID-19 and who benefits from the pandemic
The international scientific community is actively discussing versions of the artificial origin of the new pathogen.
This was fueled by a statement by Zhao Lixian, deputy head of the Information Department of the Chinese Foreign Ministry, who accused the US military of spreading the infection in China.
The two largest biolaboratories in Wuhan, including those sponsored by the United States, gradually became known.
The question of where the "zero patient" came from remains open.
Event 201
Remarkably, as early as October 2019, the Johns Hopkins Health Center, the World Economic Forum, and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation simulated a coronavirus epidemic.
The test ended at a point when, 18 months after the virus was first detected, it "killed" 65 million people and triggered a global financial crisis..
Stock markets fell by 20-40% and global gross domestic product fell by 11%.
The outbreak was modeled on a conditional "exercise" called "Event 201................
But even more interesting is that, according to The Mercury News, five years before the coronavirus pandemic, Microsoft founder Bill Gates predicted at TED 2015 that the world would face a virus, and that it, not a nuclear explosion, would be a global catastrophe.
Little is known that close to the food market where the first case of coronavirus was officially registered, is the Wuhan Institute of Virology, the only official biolaboratory of the highest level of biosecurity, which, according to US Senator Tom Cotton, "works with the world's deadliest pathogenic microorganisms, including coronavirus."
Wuxi Farmatechs Incorporated, officially sponsored by American billionaire George Soros.
The Fugitive Chimera
According to Nature News, until the end of 2014, scientists in North Carolina, USA, were working on a modification of the virus that could be transmitted from bats to humans.
However, after a successful laboratory experiment to create a hybrid form of a coronavirus bat capable of infecting humans, scientists raised concerns about the possible unpredictable consequences of a mutant virus leak.
Since then, the US government has imposed a moratorium on certain types of research, and experiments have begun to be actively conducted in China.
Already then, the Chinese virologist Shi Zhenli of the Uchang Institute of Virology, who also conducted experiments on bats, warned of the possibility of human-dangerous strains of the virus arising from their crossing.
This was in 2015 and 2017.
Then, in December 2019, a group of Chinese scientists led by Shi Zhenli identified the first patients with new coronavirus in Wuhan.
Biologists Botao Xiao and Lai Xiao later published a report entitled "Possible Sources of Coronavirus 2019-nCoV," in which they stated that the outbreak of coronavirus in Wuhan was due to experiments at two local laboratories investigating the course of the disease in bats.
Scientists noted that one of the laboratories was located just 280 metres from the famous market.
London Loves Business.
What's happening?
Biologists created a chimera from the Chinese bat-borne virus known as SHC014: its surface protein was transferred to the SARS virus living in light mice to simulate human infection.
The experiment confirmed the hypothesis of direct human infection with coronavirus bats.
In human cells, this virus reproduces perfectly.
Scientists were convinced that it was incapable of infecting humans, and only the transplant experience showed that the bat virus SHC014 had already overcome key obstacles and learned to penetrate cells.
And if it wasn 't for an experiment, no one would know about the threat of SHC014.
American virologist Alan Cantwell, author of AIDS and the Doctor of Death: A Study of the Origin of the AIDS Epidemic, and Blue Blood: A Secret Plan of Genocide, based on 107 laboratory protocols, argues that the coronavirus strain has been genetically manipulated in military laboratories since 1996.
These data are published on PubMed.
The scientist quickly discovered that for more than a decade, geneticists have been trying to change the initial genetic material of a coronavirus to produce a mutant virus with a pathogenic effect.
In his view, "unauthorized research could lead to the emergence of a dangerous, sustainable form with all the characteristics of biological weapons."
Could the virus actually have been grown and spread "in humans" artificially, or was its leak accidental?
But most importantly, who can be behind this?
Biologists and political scientists consider various conspiracy theories.
Smart East?
As you know, without Chinese exports, the economy is automatically in recession.
The main importers are the United States and the EU.
Given that the pandemic in these countries is now at its peak, the Chinese economy will have a very difficult time, as it is simply not designed to survive without exports.
China has experienced the first significant economic downturn in recent decades.
Experts estimate that this year will be the weakest for the republic since the early 1990s.
Former World Bank Director for China Bert Hoffman, in an interview with FT, noted that services and consumption account for more than half of China's GDP.
As a result, the Chinese economy is becoming more sensitive to falling domestic demand as a result of the pandemic and government controls.
Restoring lost positions in services is much more difficult than in production.
According to him, China's GDP will fall from -2% to -6.5% in the first quarter.
Despite the fact that the epidemic in China is now in decline, it is not yet possible to speak of a recovery in commodity demand.
Chinese companies that have returned to work today face not so much a supply problem as a demand.
For example, China National Petroleum Corp.
He declared a force majeure on all gas imports - because of the coronavirus in China, consumption of blue fuel fell so much that the state company stopped even selecting gas from storage.
But today, China can try to take advantage of the price war unleashed by OPEC and revise long-term oil contracts, Bloomberg experts say.
The price of the Brent futures contract has fallen significantly since the beginning of this year.
In this respect, the PRC, as the largest oil importer, has won and can become one of the key catalysts for economic growth.
Amid the hysteria surrounding coronavirus, China earned tens of billions of dollars in just a couple of days and regained 30% of its monopoly shares.
According to NASDAQ, up to that point, some of the technology companies were owned by foreign investors: Americans and Europeans.
This, in turn, meant that almost half of the revenue from the heavy and chemical industries went not to the Chinese treasury, but to European investors' accounts.
Due to the coronavirus in Wuhan, the renminbi began to fall sharply, but the Central Bank did nothing to support the currency's exchange rate.
There were even rumors that China did not have a mask to combat coronavirus.
Xi's claims that he would protect the population led to a sharp fall in technology stock prices, triggering a chain reaction - stocks were put on the market until they were completely devalued and bought by the Chinese.
Some billionaires have also won the coronavirus.
Indeed, ten Chinese billionaires have grown by nearly $14.5 billion a week: half of them have health-care businesses.
Anti-globalization Americans?
Last fall, the United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention hired a large number of specialists in quarantine and quarantine closures - antiviral and flu - on the site.
And in February, Chinese diplomat Zhao Lixian announced that the US military had introduced a new virus to China, which occurred last October during the World War II Games in Wuhan.
Because of the coronavirus, the American economy is not going through better times, analysts do not rule out multiple unemployment, recession, and volatile stock market failures.
The leading US stock indices S 500 and Dow Jones have wasted everything US President Donald Trump has been so proud of over the past two months.
The pandemic and the ensuing panic caused the two indices to experience either the worst days in their history or the "Black Monday" of 1987.
The only exception is pharmaceutical corporations.
As in the rest of the world, their shares have increased significantly.
Despite this, according to Russian economist Mikhail Delyagin, the US is the main beneficiary against the backdrop of coronavirus hysteria.
"Now one American 'leg' is fighting another," the expert said in an interview with PC.
- Trump is fighting globalization elites to the death, not to life.
To win, it needs to cut off its opponents from resources - to 'crash' the global financial system and break global economic chains, which is happening before our eyes. "
Also, according to some experts, Americans are committed to maximizing national economic interests.
To do so, they need to create the least advantageous conditions for their main competitors, China and Russia, making their further development impossible.
But a number of industries and leading companies in the US are not in a better position.
For example, Boeing did not receive any orders for the first time since 1962 in January this year, thus limiting other countries' ability to produce aircraft.
Moreover, the US fears China's technological leadership.
The Made in China 2025 programme and the activity of Chinese companies to embrace advanced technologies are causing concern to the White House.
One important area where China has already become a prominent player is digital networks and telecommunications on its own technology and research base.
Huawei, ZTE, China Unicom, China Mobile, CITIC Telecom are full-fledged transnational corporations that are also leading in technology.
US restrictive measures against China's technology giants could hit the market and, in the long run, reduce innovation.
The Atlantic View
Global experts gave their forecasts to Foreign Policy magazine about which countries will "win" after the pandemic ends.
They affected relations between China, the United States, and the European Union.
Stephen M. Walt, Professor of the Robert and Rene Belfer Center for International Relations at Harvard University:
The pandemic will strengthen the state and strengthen nationalism.
Governments of all types will take emergency measures to overcome the crisis, and many will not want to
Abandon these new powers when the crisis is over.
COVID-19 will also accelerate the transfer of power and influence from the West to the East.
South Korea and Singapore responded best, and China responded well after mistakes at an early stage.
Compared to them, the response in Europe and America was slow and erratic, further dampening the Western aura.
brand
What will not change is the fundamentally conflicting nature of world politics.
We will see a further retreat from hyperglobalization.
COVID-19 will create a less open, less prosperous and less free world.
The combination of a deadly virus, inadequate planning and incompetent leadership has put humanity on a new and alarming development path.
Kishore Mahbubani, research fellow at the Asian Research Institute of the National University of Singapore, author of the book "Did China Win?
- The pandemic will not fundamentally change global economic trends.
It will only accelerate the changes that have already begun: a shift from US-oriented globalization to more China-oriented globalization.
Why will this trend continue?
The American people have lost faith in globalization and international trade.
Free-trade agreements are toxic, both with and without US President Donald Trump.
On the contrary, China has not lost faith.
The United States has two options.
If their primary goal is to maintain world supremacy, they will have to compete with China in a zero-sum geopolitical contest, both politically and economically.
But if the goal is to improve the well-being of the American people, whose social situation has deteriorated, they must cooperate with China.
Shivsankar Menon, a member of the Brookings Institution offices in India and former National Security Adviser to Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh:
- First, the coronavirus pandemic will change our policies, both within and between nations.
The relative success of the Government in overcoming the pandemic and its economic consequences will exacerbate or weaken security problems and the recent polarization within societies.
In any case, the Government has returned.
Experience shows that authoritarians or populists are not coping with the pandemic.
Indeed, countries that responded promptly and successfully to the pandemic, such as Korea and Taiwan, were democratic states, and those led by populist or authoritarian leaders failed.
Secondly, this is not the end of an interconnected world.
The pandemic itself is proof of our interdependence.
But all States are already turning inward, seeking autonomy and controlling their own destiny.
We are moving towards a poorer, more sinister and smaller world.
Joseph S. Youngest, professor at Harvard University, founder of the theory of neoliberalism in international relations, author of the term soft-power:
- The American Power will need a new strategy.
In 2017, US President Donald Trump announced a new national security strategy focused on competition between the great powers.
COVID-19 shows that this strategy is inadequate.
Even if the United States wins as a great power, it will not be able to protect its security by acting alone.
With transnational threats like COVID-19 and climate change, it is not enough to think about America's power over other countries.
Awareness of the importance of power alongside others is also key to success.
Each country put its national interests first; the important question was whether those interests were broadly or narrowly defined.
COVID-19 shows that we are failing to adapt our strategy to this new world.
Richard N. Haas, Director, Globalist Council for International Relations - CFR:
- I think that the coronavirus crisis, at least for a few years, will force most governments to turn inward, focusing on what is happening within their borders, not what is happening outside.
I expect more movement towards selective self-reliance (and, as a result, decoupling), given the vulnerability of the supply chain; more resistance to large-scale immigration; and less willingness or commitment to address regional or global challenges (including climate change), given the perceived need for resources for domestic recovery and the economic impact of the crisis.
I expect that many countries will have difficulties recovering from the crisis.
The crisis is likely to contribute to the continuing deterioration of Sino-American relations and the weakening of European integration.
On a positive note, there has been some modest strengthening of global public health governance.
Overall, however, the crisis rooted in globalization would weaken rather than enhance the world 's readiness and capacity to combat it.
Nicholas Burns, Professor at Harvard Kennedy School of Government and former US State Department Deputy Secretary of State for Political Affairs:
- To date, international cooperation is extremely inadequate.
If the United States and China, the world 's most powerful countries, cannot put aside their verbal war on who is responsible for this crisis and manage it more effectively, the credibility of both countries could be significantly undermined.
If the European Union cannot provide more targeted assistance to its 500 million citizens, national governments will regain more power in the future, to the detriment of Brussels.