Coronavirus: From which animal did the first patient get infected?
This pangolin, like many others, was smuggled into Malaysia.
Somewhere in China, a fly has been defecated.
The debris containing coronavirus fell on the forest floor.
A terrestrial animal, possibly a pangolin, sniffing insects out of the leaf litter, has contracted this infection.
The virus circulates in the wild and is finally passed on from the infected animal to the person who caught it, and from it to market workers.
A global outbreak has begun.
Scientists are trying to prove that this is what happened and to determine which animals carry the virus.
According to Professor Andrew Cunningham and the London Zoological Society, this work is somewhat like a detective.
A number of animals of different species could carry the infection, he says.
These include bats, which are known to contain various coronaviruses in their organisms.
Coronavirus under electron microscope
After researchers deciphered the genetic code of the coronavirus Covid-19 from the human body, suspicions about bats increased.
They form large flocks, fly long distances and are present on all continents.
Professor Kate Jones of University College London explains that bats have an enhanced ability to repair damaged DNA structures, perhaps by adapting to the high energy costs required for flight.
They may therefore be able to resist elevated levels of viruses in their bodies and rarely become ill themselves.
It's just a hypothesis, "she says.
"If you look at their way of life, it 's obvious that their organisms must contain a lot of different viruses," says Professor Jonathan Ball of the University of Nottingham.
- And since they are mammals, they can infect humans - directly or through intermediary animals. "
The woman in Wuhan has to wear a mask to walk the dog
Who served as a walking incubator for the coronavirus and finished their days at the market in Wuhan?
One of the main suspects is Pangolin.
This ant-eating and scaly mammal is more than any animal in the world, is smuggled and is therefore on the verge of extinction.
Pangolin is used in traditional Chinese medicine, and its meat is considered a delicacy by some.
In pangolins, Chinese scientists found coronaviruses similar to those suffered by humans but not completely identical.
Could there be a gene mutation?
The studies have not been completed and the information is incomplete, so experts are still careful with their findings.
The virus is believed to be the source of the SARS epidemic.
Authorities remove them from the market in Sinyang, Guangzhou Province (photo 2004)
According to Professor Cunningham, the origin and number of pangolins surveyed are key: "If there are several animals caught on the wild, then the data are quite convincing.
If you are looking at a pangolin from the market, you can't say anything for sure. "
Pangolins and bats are often sold in open food markets.
"There is an ideal environment for transmitting pathogens between animals and from animals to humans," says Andrew Cunningham.
Camels are also known to be carriers of coronavirus.
The now closed market was the Game Department, where live and slaughtered animals were sold, including parts of camel carcasses, koalas and birds.
According to The Guardian, an inventory conducted at one of the stores showed the presence of live wolves, golden cicadas, scorpions, bamboo rats, protein, foxes, civets, hedgehogs, wildebeests, salamanders, turtles and crocodiles.
It seems that pangolins and bats are not on this list, but Chinese authorities will no doubt find out which animals were sold in the ear market, says Professor Ball.
"If the transmission of the virus to a person has occurred once, you have to know if it can be repeated," he says.
- It is necessary to determine which animal and under what circumstances has become a source of contamination, which factors increase the risk. "
Many of the viruses that have made noise in recent years have come to us from animals: Ebola, HIV, SARS, and now coronavirus.
Professor Jones explains that the increase in the number of such outbreaks is due both to the fact that doctors have learned to determine their origin, and to the increasing human invasion of wildlife, landscape change, and, as a result, contact with viruses that humans have not encountered before.
In February 2020, the Indonesian market continued to trade bats
Taking into account the risk factors, precautions can be taken.
But, according to Professor Cunningham, they should not be allowed to exterminate certain species that play an important role in ecosystems.
In particular, bats not only transmit viruses, but also eat a lot of mosquitoes and agricultural pests, pollinate trees and spread their seeds.
Following the outbreak of SARS in 2002-2003, caused by coronavirus, very similar to the current one, trade in wild animals was temporarily banned, but soon revived in China, Vietnam and other Southeast Asian countries.
The Chinese authorities have now taken similar measures, and according to some reports, it is possible that this time the ban will be made indefinite.
Even if it is not possible to determine precisely the source and circumstances of human contamination, such disasters can be effectively prevented, says Professor Diana Bell of the University of East Anglia.
"We move around the world and collect in some places animals from different countries and natural environments, with different lifestyles, aquatic, woody and so on, thus creating a" melting pot "for infections.
It should stop, "she said.