Can mosquitoes carry coronavirus?
Spring and mosquito season are about to begin.
Many worry about the question, "Do mosquitoes carry coronavirus?"
"People are concerned and their concerns are justified," says Alissa Berro, environmental specialist at Pinellas County Mosquito Control.
Little was known about COVID-19 from the beginning, and there was much speculation about how it was distributed.
But the World Health Organization has made a statement that the virus cannot be transmitted by mosquitoes.
This hypothesis has also been confirmed by the American Association for Mosquito Control.
Because mosquitoes are immune to certain viruses, including coronavirus, they cannot spread it.
Jason Kindrachuk, head of the Department of Microbiology and Infectious Diseases at the University of Manitoba, says mosquitoes need not be feared.
We haven 't detected the spread of other coronaviruses by mosquitoes, so in the case of SARS-CoV-2, this is also unlikely.
Spiders cannot distribute coronavirus
There is no scientific evidence to suggest that mosquitoes can transmit COVID-19 to humans or other animals.
Mosquitoes have an immune system, and they have to get infected and then repeat the virus, usually in their salivary glands, "said R. J. Montgomery, Director of the Hillsboro County Mosquito Control Service.
There are many pathogenic microorganisms with which mosquitoes cannot do this, and COVID-19 is one of them.
However, mosquitoes are carriers of other dangerous diseases, including Zika virus, Chikungunya virus, malaria and dengue fever.
According to Berro, these diseases are not common in Europe and North America, and people are more likely to get them during travel.
In the current limited travel environment, Berro said that they did not expect many people to pick up these infections.
But other mosquito-borne diseases, such as West Nile virus and encephalitis, are more common in the US.
According to Montgomery, there is a program in Hillsborough County to monitor whether mosquitoes are actively transmitting these diseases.
We've worked a lot behind the scenes to protect public health, and that's really why the program exists.
Spiders can be extremely dangerous not only for the US, but also worldwide.
And we are always following this potential, "said Montgomery.
He noted that inspectors were actively monitoring more than 10,000 aquatic habitats that could be potential mosquito breeding sites.
They also carry out aerial inspections to see how much water is on the ground and spray sites with too many mosquitoes.
The biggest thing you can do at home to protect yourself from mosquitoes is take care of any breeding sites.
All the water in the dining room is sufficient for this.
Recommendations to prevent mosquito reproduction
The larvae feed on water.
You can limit their population near your place of residence by:
Drain water from garbage cans, household gutters, bathtubs, coolers, toys, flower pots, buckets, ponds, children's pools and any other containers where rainwater was collected.
Use old tires, drums, bottles, cans, pots and pans, broken machinery and other items that can collect water.
Clean the gutters and pipes regularly.
Clean empty bird baths and animal water bowls at least once or twice a week.
Protect boats and vehicles from rain with tarpaulins that do not accumulate water.
Keep the pools in good condition and maintain chlorination.
Mosquito control officials also offer protection against insects, especially at dusk, at dawn and at night:
Wear long sleeves and long trousers;
Choose dark clothing;
Use mosquito repellents.