WHO: Unravelling myths about the new coronavirus
The coronavirus travels all over the planet except Antarctica, causing panic among humans.
The World Health Organization (WHO) is debunking these myths and other false perceptions.
Myth 1: Transmission of COVID-19 virus does not occur in hot and humid areas.
Current data suggest that the transmission of the COVID-19 virus may occur in any region, including hot humid areas.
If you live in or are on your way to an area where COVID-19 cases are registered, take protective measures regardless of the climatic conditions.
Myth 2: Staying out on the street in cold and snowy weather helps destroy the new coronavirus
The body temperature of a healthy person is kept from 36.5 ° C to 37 ° C regardless of ambient temperature or weather.
Therefore, there is no reason to believe that being on the street in cold weather helps to combat new coronavirus infections or other diseases.
Myth 3: Hot tub helps against a new coronavirus infection
Receiving hot baths will NOT save you from COVID-19 contamination.
The normal body temperature is kept from 36.5 to 37 ° C regardless of the temperature of the bath or shower.
On the contrary, taking too hot a bath can be harmful and cause burns.
The best way to protect against COVID-19 is to wash your hands frequently.
Myth 4: A new coronavirus is transmitted through mosquito bites
New coronavirus is a respiratory virus mainly transmitted by the air-droplet route, i.e. by inhalation of droplets from the respiratory tract of a patient, such as coughing or sneezing, as well as droplets of saliva or nasal secretions.
There is currently no information on the possibility of transmission of COVID-19 through mosquito bites.
Myth 5: Hand dryers destroy COVID-19 virus
No, hand wipers don't kill COVID-19.
To prevent a new coronavirus infection, hands should be treated regularly with alcohol-containing antiseptics or washed with soap.
Washed hands should be carefully dried with paper towels or an electric brush.
Myth 6: Ultraviolet Disinfection Lamp (UV Lamp) Helps Destroy New Coronavirus
UV lamps should not be used to sterilize hands or other areas of skin cover, as UV radiation can cause skin erythema (irritation).
Myth 7: Thermal scanners are effective in detecting people infected with new coronavirus
Thermal scanners are effective in detecting people who have developed a fever (i.e., body temperature is higher than normal 36.5 ° C to 37 ° C) due to infection with new coronavirus.
However, they cannot find people who are infected but have not yet contracted the fever.
This is due to the fact that it takes 2 to 10 days for people to get infected and develop fever.
Myth 8: Spraying alcohol or chlorine all over the body can kill a new coronavirus
No, I'm not.
Spraying alcohol or chlorine throughout your body will not kill viruses that have already penetrated your body.
Spraying such substances can be harmful to clothing or mucous membranes (i.e. eyes, mouth).
Keep in mind that alcohol and chlorine may be useful for surface disinfection but should be used in accordance with the relevant recommendations.
Myth 9: Vaccines against pneumonia protect the coronavirus
No, I'm not.
Pneumonia vaccines, such as pneumococcal vaccine and Hib vaccine, are not immune to the new coronavirus.
The virus is so new and unusual that it needs its own vaccine.
Researchers are trying to develop a vaccine against COVID-19.
Myth 10: Regular rinsing of the nose with physiological solution to help prevent infection with new coronavirus?
There is no evidence that regular rinsing of the nose with a physiological solution protected people from contracting new coronavirus.
There is some limited evidence that regular rinsing of the nose with a physiological solution can help people recover more quickly after a cold.
However, regular nosebleeds do not prevent respiratory infections.
Myth 11: Using garlic can prevent new coronavirus infection
Garlic is a healthy food that can have antimicrobial properties.
However, there is currently no evidence that the use of garlic has protected people from the new coronavirus.
Myth 12: The new coronavirus only affects older people, young people are less susceptible to it
The new COVID-19 coronavirus infection can occur in all age groups.
Older persons and persons with certain diseases (e.g. asthma, diabetes, heart disease, cancer) appear to be at increased risk of developing severe forms of coronavirus infection.
WHO recommends that persons of all ages take protective measures against infection, for example, through hand and cough hygiene.
Myth 13: Antibiotics are effective in preventing and treating a new coronavirus
No, antibiotics don 't work against viruses, only against bacteria.
The new coronavirus (COVID-19) is a virus and therefore antibiotics should not be used as a means of prevention or treatment.
However, if you are hospitalized because of a new coronavirus, you can receive antibiotics as prescribed by a doctor, because bacterial co-infection is possible.
Myth 14: There are special medicines available to prevent or treat a new coronavirus infection
There are currently NO special drugs recommended for the prevention or treatment of new coronavirus (COVID-19).
However, those infected with the virus should receive appropriate care to alleviate and treat symptoms, and those with severe diseases should receive optimized support.
Some specific treatments are being studied and will be tested in clinical trials.
WHO is helping to accelerate research and development efforts through a number of partners.
WHO 's main recommendations include the following precautionary measures:
Wash your hands regularly with alcohol or soap.
Keep your distance in public.
Do not approach people at a minimum distance of 1 m, especially if they have coughing, drowsiness and elevated temperatures.
If possible, do not touch your eyes, nose and mouth
Follow respiratory hygiene rules, i.e., when coughing and sneezing, cover your mouth and nose with a napkin or a bent elbow; drop the napkin immediately into a garbage container with a lid and treat your hands with alcohol-containing antiseptic or wash them with soap.
If you have a fever, cough or difficulty breathing, seek medical attention as soon as possible.
Follow the latest information and follow the recommendations of medical professionals