China's Biological Weapons and Development.
Conspiracy theories are spreading against the background of the coronavirus outbreak
On the Web you can find fake information about the existence of a vaccine against the virus and the healing properties of a really dangerous device.
As the new strain of coronavirus spreads around the world, there is a lot of fake news and conspiracy theories about the outbreak..............
From manipulations that the new disease has already been recorded in Ukraine and an inaccurate number of deaths to "exposing" those responsible for the spread of the disease.
The Independent collected the most popular of them and explained that these theories and news were not.
It's all the Chinese who eat bats.
The exact origin of the virus is unknown.
It is believed to have originated in China's Wuhan seafood market.
The first infected individuals may have contracted the disease from animals, from which coronavirus is usually transmitted.
The Wuhan Institute of Virology found that the genetic composition of the new coronavirus was 96% identical to that found in bats.
Against this background, videos have been circulating in the past few weeks of Chinese eating bats that accompany accusations about their eating habits.
In one of the most popular videos, a young Chinese woman named Wang Min showed that she bites a flying mouse and says it tastes "like chicken meat."
However, Wang revealed that the video was made in Palau, not China, as early as 2017, and is not related to the recent outbreak.
At the same time, according to the Air Force, bats are not a very common food in China, and the search for the exact origin of the virus is still ongoing.
The virus was taken to the lab and patented in the U.S.
Several viral posts on Twitter and Facebook claim that the new outbreak of coronavirus is related to the expiration of the patent, and some claim that a vaccine against the virus already exists.
Let me clarify something about this virus.
This "new" virus was created in the laboratory and patented in 2015 (in development since 2003).
The patent expires today, the day the first case of the disease was registered in the United States.
The patent states: "The CDC was involved in the invention.
The United States Government has the right to make this decision. "
What about what is being done in some incomprehensible way now?
The 2015 patent already refers to her... "
The fact is that there are many different coronaviruses that cause different conditions and diseases.
This case is in fact a SARS virus that broke out in China in 2003.
In addition, in the United States, Shiva Ayyadurai, a Republican who is running for the Massachusetts Senate, has circulated a post claiming that the patent for the coronavirus belongs to the Pirbright Institute in England.
Pirbright does have a patent like this, but it deals with the avian infectious bronchitis virus, which infects a domestic bird, and so far, the institute has not been working on any of the strains that infect people.
Wuhan coronavirus is a new strain, and there is no vaccine for it yet.
Bill Gates is connected to the flash.
Another conspiracy theory developed around the Bill Gates and Melinda Gates Foundation, which donated $10 million to combat coronavirus.
Some found this suspicious and were linked to the Pirbright Institute, mentioned earlier.
However, the Institute's representative Teresa Mogan denied this in a conversation with Buzzfeed News.
The patented work referred to in conspiracy theories concerns only the infectious bronchitis virus (IBV), and we have made four changes in the gene responsible for replicating the genetic material of the virus.
This weakened the virus, so it is no longer capable of causing disease and could potentially be used as a vaccine, but it has not yet been developed, "Mohan explained.
"The patented work was completed in 2015 and is not funded by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation," she added.
The funding does not indicate that the Gates Foundation knew in advance of the coronavirus outbreak or played a role in its.
Virus - Biological weapons
Another unfounded theory emerging on social media is that the virus is linked to a "secret biological weapons program" in Wuhan or that it was smuggled from a Canadian laboratory.
Both theories have no evidence.
The National Microbiology Laboratory in Winnipeg, Canada, in 2013, investigated a new cluster of coronavirus infections.
However, as noted above, there are many types of coronaviruses, in which case the laboratory studied MERS (Middle East respiratory syndrome coronaviruses).
As for the Chinese programme, someone is linking the Wuhan National Biosafety Laboratory, which is studying the world 's most dangerous pathogenic micro-organisms, to the Chinese biological warfare programme.
China denies the existence of such a program, and the link between the laboratory and the latest outbreak of coronavirus has not been proven.
At the same time, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) report that the first reports of the disease indicate that the virus originated in the seafood and animal market in Wuhan.
Both the CDC and the World Health Organization are still investigating the cause of the fire, but none of them suggested that it was related to biological weapons.
A Bleach Saves Disease
One of the strangest news related to coronavirus is that a blender is supposedly saving the disease.
According to the Daily Beast, some propose drinking "Miracle Mineral Solution," also known as chlorine dioxide, which is used for bleaching as a way to combat coronavirus.
The "therapeutic" properties of the means are promoted not for the first time.
Last year, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) even warned people not to drink MMS, which has been described as a "cure for autism, cancer, and HIV."
It has been called a "dangerous bleach," which can cause serious and potentially life-threatening side effects. "