Experts were unable to determine how COVID-19 entered the market in Wuhan
Moscow.
9 February.
INTERFAX.RU - Attempts to determine how COVID-19 coronavirus entered the market in Wuhan have yet to yield results, the head of China's expert commission on the study of the Liang Wannyan virus said on Tuesday.
"It is now impossible to determine how it entered the market," said a Chinese scientist at a press conference in Wuhan.
According to him, Chinese experts, together with WHO colleagues, saw that the market "had traces of the virus on the surfaces.
It could have been brought by humans or animals (
traded on the market - IF
). "
No animal identified as the source of the coronavirus
However, COVID-19 coronavirus may have originated from the animal, but it is not yet known from which.
"The discovery of a virus sequence with high homology to SARS-CoV-2 suggests that it may be of zoonic origin," said Liang Vannyan.
He added that the virus could potentially be transmitted from bats and pangolins, but the coronavirus samples found in these species were not entirely identical to the COVID-19 found in humans.
"The high susceptibility of minks and cats to SARS-CoV-2 suggests that carriers may indeed be other species of animals," said the scientist.
Outbreaks could have been in other markets
Liang Vannyan added that the Okhny seafood market was one of the places where the coronavirus outbreak occurred, but "in other regions" there may well have been undocumented cases as well.
No trace of coronavirus detected until December 2019
"No traces of COVID-19 spread among the population in Wuhan until December 2019 were found, and there is not enough evidence to establish whether it spread in Wuhan until December 2019," said Liang Vannyan.
WHO continues to link the emergence of coronavirus with bats
Peter Ben Embarek, head of a WHO expert group working in China, said on Tuesday that COVID-19 coronavirus was probably initially spreading to bats, but it is unlikely that the disease came through these animals in Wuhan.
Worldwide
Read more
"All the work that has been done to determine the origin of the virus and that is ongoing points to the natural source - bats," he said at the press conference.
Hypothesis of animal-to-human transmission through intermediate link
However, it is noted that there are no such bat populations in Wuhan, so experts are studying other species in which coronavirus could evolve and then pass on to humans.
Possible version of transfer via frozen products
"The market in Wuhan was mainly concerned with frozen animal products, seafood," Peter Ben Embarek added.
WHO experts do not rule out the possibility that the virus could have originally entered the market through products.
He also pointed out that there was "potential for further exploration" of market supply chains and animal species that could become a link of proliferation.
The market in Wuhan is the first place where COVID-19 was discovered in late 2019.
However, the mechanism by which the virus began to spread from animals to humans has not yet been determined.
The city has a team of WHO experts and experts from the PRC.
They're trying to figure out where the coronavirus infection started.
The first WHO task force visited China in February 2020.
Experts concluded that the zoonotic virus could have been transmitted to humans from bats, but generally left open the question of the source of the infection.
Another team of experts from the organization was to come to China in July and establish the origin of the coronavirus.
But only two experts came to China from her.
They did not travel to Wuhan and were engaged in determining the "volume and scope" of work for the next, third, phase of the mission.
On February 3, 2021, a team of WHO experts visited the Wuhan Institute of Virology.
According to some versions, the pandemic began with the release of the coronavirus from his laboratory.
The day before, WHO specialists visited the Animal Disease Centre in Wuhan.
Experts from the mission also met with COVID-19 patients and the families of the deceased.