Immunity to Covid-19 proved stronger than previously thought - scientists
Some cellular components of the immune system can "remember" SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus and prevent re-infection for at least eight to nine months.
These are the results of the latest research.
At the beginning of the Covid-19 pandemic, it was found that antibody concentrations in the blood of those infected had been decreasing for several months.
Concerns about re-infestations were confirmed, with the first confirmed case in Hong Kong in August, and two dozen more soon emerged.
Part of the reason for this is that after a common cold, which is caused by coronaviruses already common to humans ("relatives" of SARS-CoV-2), long-term immunity does not develop, and in a year, people may be re-infected, recalls Nigel McMillan, an infectious disease expert, Professor at Griffith University in Australia.
In an article published on the academic portal The Conversation, the scientist cites encouraging results from new research in the field of the immune response to Covid-19.
Like the War
When the enemy invades the country, it gathers all its forces, enters the war and repels the invaders.
Once the enemy has retreated, the wise rulers of the country set up watchmen to look for signs of a possible new invasion.
These observers know what enemies look like, what form they have and how they travel, the professor gives a vivid analogy.
Our immune system works exactly the same, he writes.
Whenever the human body fights a bacterial or viral infection, after recovery there are certain cells that remember exactly what the "invader" looks like.
These are memory cells, and their task in the event of a new invasion is to alert the immune system at an early stage and provide an adequate response.
This means that we don 't have to fight the whole war again from the beginning, so the re-infection either goes away immediately, or the time needed for recovery is significantly reduced.
For some viruses, this memory can be very long, for example, in the case of measles, it lasts a lifetime.
B cells in reserve
B cells or B lymphocytes, which play an important role in providing an immune response to infection, produce antibodies that capture and destroy pathogens such as viruses and bacteria.
A team of researchers from Monash University (Melbourne, Australia) last week published preliminary results of a study on the formation of SARS-CoV-2-specific memory cells in the body.
Two months after the initial infection in the blood of 25 observed patients, a decrease in circulating antibodies against coronavirus was recorded.
However, memory B cells have been found that recognize important structural parts of the virus: the sickle protein (the "key" by which SARS-CoV-2 opens the cell) and the nucleocapsid (the virus genome and its protein envelope).
The study found that these B cells circulate in the blood for at least eight months, and possibly longer.
A drop in serum antibody levels after 1 month does not indicate a decrease in immunity, but a decrease in immune response.
noted by the authors.
And if a person becomes infected with coronavirus again, B cells can quickly produce antibodies to fight the infection.
If we continue the "military" analogy of the author, it is easy to keep the entire army deployed in peacetime, but in the event of an invasion the troops quickly mobilize and give battle to the enemy.
In another study by US scientists, also published last week, memory B cells were detected for at least six months after the primary infection.
Support T-shirts
Infected cells bring fragments of the pathogen to their surface.
It 's a kind of SOS signal that allows T cells - lymphocytes of another species - to find a hidden enemy, to contact an infected cell and destroy it with the pathogen.
In September, Oxford University scientists published a study showing the reaction of memory T cells to SARS-CoV-2.
Their conclusion: certain
T-lymphocytes can remember how to respond to coronavirus-infected cells long after the initial infection has been eliminated.
The duration of this memory was specified in the work of Chinese and German scientists published on 16 November.
They studied patients from Wuhan, China, where the Covid-19 pandemic began.
It was therefore possible to verify whether or not immunity to coronavirus was maintained in some of the first patients, and in what form.
Studies showed that after nine months of infection, the reaction of T cells to coronavirus remained.
So there 's going to be re-contamination - or not?
Currently, there are 24 laboratory confirmed Covid-19 infections worldwide.
According to many scholars, this is only a small fraction of the actual cases.
Yet, with more than 62 million people infected worldwide since the beginning of the pandemic, re-infection is still very rare.
According to new data, the human immune system can remember SARS-CoV-2 and respond to it.
For at least eight or nine months after the first infection, most of the infected are protected from infection.
And if the reinfection does occur, the disease is likely to be mild, says the Australian professor.