Infusion: Orthodox fakes, coronavirus in Siberia and Mexico, a cure for parasites
In short, the important
Supporters of conspiracy theories are more likely to violate isolation rules and quarantine restrictions, as researchers at King's College London found.
38% of those who believe that there is no evidence of Covid-19 have received guests and invited relatives during the quarantine.
Among those who thought the virus was real, 12% were violators.
The study also found that proponents of conspiracy theories are more likely to receive information from social media.
Two Brazilian doctors, Álvaro Galvao and Rafael Freitas, posted a video on YouTube stating that Africa uses a parasite drug to treat coronavirus - viewed over 336,000 times.
The doctors' statement proved to be false - it was refuted by the comptroller.
Galvao and Freytas - not the first to talk about the usefulness of anti-helminth drugs against coronavirus - have previously called for the use of ivermectin by several Brazilian politicians.
Mexico could take the place of Brazil and become the new epicentre of the coronavirus in Latin America.
In terms of the number of deaths from Covid-19, the country ranks fourth in the world, and the risk of dying from coronavirus for local health workers is five to six times higher than in the United States, the United Kingdom, and China.
Meanwhile, local authorities are publishing questionable data on the pandemic situation in the country.
As told by Coda Story journalist Rachel Sherman
Last weekend, the Mexican Government did not update the map of contamination data used by the regional authorities since May as a guide to lifting or imposing quarantine restrictions.
The Deputy Minister of Health has accused the regions of not providing reliable information, and in response they say that the federal authorities are to blame for the map's inefficiency.
This is not the first time that Mexican authorities have misled the population - even though the number of coronavirus infections and deaths in the country continues to rise.
President Andrés Manuel López Obrador is the main opponent of coronavirus in the country.
At the very beginning of the pandemic, he showed two amulets at a press conference and said that they - as well as his honesty and the fight against corruption - would protect him from the virus.
Obrador does not wear a mask and does not respect social distance - in his words, it is enough to be a "good person" to not get infected.
Interior Minister Sánchez Cordero does not wear a mask either, but uses "nanomolecules based on citrus" to prevent infection - only a few drops, she says, destroy the virus.
As politicians argue among themselves, independent researchers believe that official data on coronavirus in Mexico are grossly understated - and are silent on tens of thousands of deaths..
Moving to Russia
Orthodoxy and Fake
The so-called coronavirus fakes are not only punished by independent journalists who write about the catastrophic state of medicine in Russia (in a previous letter we told about a Turkish journalist who published photographs of the bodies of the coronavirus dead being stored in local morgues - now he is accused of spreading false information).
The chief editor of the Orthodox and government TV channel Tsargrad Darya Tokarev was fined 120,000 rubles for spreading coronavirus fakes.
Tokarev was accused of spreading "knowingly unreliable public information under the guise of credible."
Citizens are fined between 30 and 100 thousand rubles under this article, and legal persons are fined between 200 and 500 thousand.
Tokarev was fined two texts - 60,000 rubles each.
Representatives of the "Tsargrad" are going to appeal the court's decision.
The protocols do not contain specific material, but Mediazona suggested that it was material under the headings "They need access to your body" and "Using a coronavirus they want to dispose of most of the world's population."
In these texts, the Orthodox businessman Hermann Sterligov discussed coronavirus.
In his view, the virus is not transmitted by air-drops and tests can be used to infect people.
Both materials have been removed from the site.
Administrative fraud statistics are not publicly available.
But Agora 's international human rights team documented 157 cases under the fake article in a June report in just three quarantine months.
According to Agora, the amount of fines in these cases has already exceeded 1 million rubles.
Coronavirus in Siberia
This weekend I spent in Novosibirsk: in the city you still can't sit inside the cafe, but on the summer verandas - anshlag, there are queues.
It's like normal life is coming back.
Meanwhile, hospitals are being re-branded as coronavirus patients, and new infections are increasing (about 170 people per day), with experts predicting an increase in mortality.
In the City Hospital No. 3, which has been converted for the treatment of coronavirus patients and is already overcrowded, 30 per cent of the staff during this period have gone on leave or sick leave - they are not prepared to work in difficult conditions without adequate protective equipment.
In Russia this is a quiet protest, while Iranian doctors, in a similar situation (similar to the daily increase in new Covid-19 cases), did not remain silent.
In the Iranian city of Ahvaz, health workers took to the streets to remind residents to wear masks.
Dressed in protective suits, health workers walked through a local market asking passersby to take the pandemic more seriously.
The letter was prepared with the support of Sasha Tyan and Tatiana Torocheshnikova.