"The Masons Want to Destroy the Chinese": How the new outbreak of the coronavirus in Beijing has turned out to be conspiracy theories
Chinese social media advocates associate the new outbreak of the coronavirus in Beijing with conspiracies by Bill Gates, masons, or frozen salmon suppliers from Norway.
Why do the authorities benefit from such conspiracy theories?
Conspiracy theories that attempt to explain the new outbreak of coronavirus in Beijing are widely disseminated on the Chinese Internet, says the Financial Times.
The publication notes that the authorities usually closely monitor social media and quickly remove messages that are unfavorable to Beijing.
But the conspiracy theories that emerged after the outbreak of the coronavirus in Beijing have gone beyond the Internet and have begun to influence real life.
An example of this is the boycott of salmon due to a new outbreak of coronavirus.
From 12 to 19 June, 183 new cases were identified in Beijing.
The outbreak was linked to the large Sindhi food market: its administration reported that coronavirus had been found on a cutting board for the cutting of imported salmon.
The state newspaper Global Times reported that the virus could have been brought to Beijing from abroad.
Norwegian salmon then disappeared from shops and restaurants, and producers reported that China had suspended salmon purchases in Europe.
Later, officials of the China Center for Disease Control and Prevention stated that no traces of coronavirus were found on salmon outside the Sinfadi market, but it was too late: users of Chinese social networks picked up the idea that the virus was exported from Norway along with frozen salmon, writes FT.
They also began to speculate that the outbreak of coronavirus in Wuhan in December 2019 may also be related to imported products.
"If coronavirus is found in salmon, then the first case in Ouhani was caused not by meat of wild animals but by imported seafood?
Who was the first to accuse the Chinese of eating wild animals? "
- quotes the release of Mydad user's record on Chinese social network Weibo.
More recently, the spread of conspiracy theories on Chinese social media has been increasing, notes Professor King-wa Fu, Hong Kong University's Centre for Journalism and Media Studies.
"Coronavirus is an unprecedented phenomenon and this type of information tends to spread in times of uncertainty, not only in China, but throughout the world," he said.
Most of the rumors spread on Chinese social media carry a nationalist tone and sometimes overlap with conspiracy theories spread by right-wing activists in the US, notes FT.
For example, a post on Weibo, later removed, claimed that the leak of the coronavirus from the Chinese lab might have been supported by Microsoft founder and American billionaire Bill Gates.
Another Weibo user named Chouniuba tried to link another American billionaire, George Soros, to the coronavirus.
Bill Gates' death was criticised for coronavirus.
Why doesn't anyone suspect Soros? "
- he wrote.
A number of Weibo users have attributed the spread of coronavirus to Masonic intrigues.
Both the Wuhan outbreak and the Beijing outbreak began in the food markets.
Their initiator took advantage of these human places and their relaxed thinking.
These horrible American masons are determined to destroy the Chinese, "noted one Chinese user in his account.
Such conspiracy theories support official Beijing's claim that the virus may have originated outside China, and help counter US President Donald Trump's claim that COVID-19 is a "Chinese virus," says the Financial Times.
At the beginning of the Beijing-Washington standoff on this issue, Chinese Foreign Ministry official Zhao Lixian tweeted a theory that the virus could have been deliberately introduced into Wuhan by US military.
This led to a heated debate in social media about the origin of the virus.
According to Vanessa Molter and Graham Webster of Stanford University, the tweets of a representative of the IID show how China's changing propaganda tactics interact with distorted news reports, conspiracy theories on social media, and existing tensions in US-China relations.
"All this leads to loud misinformation about the public health crisis," said the researchers.
In 1991, Lee Sitin founded Mindray Medical International in Shenzhen.
Since then, the company has become the largest manufacturer of medical equipment in China.
Mindray has been active in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic since the virus first appeared in China: it has tripled the production of artificial lung ventilation devices (IVLs) at the Shenzhen plant to 3,000 units per month, according to Chinese media.
The company donated $4.6 billion in medical equipment, including urgently needed IVLs, to hospitals around the world, including Italy and Uhan.
Adam Glanzman / Bloomberg via Getty Images 1 of 8
Nationality: French
Status: $1.5 billion (109% increase since March 11)
Source of wealth: Modern
Bansel has been the CEO of Moderna Therapeutics, based in Cambridge, Massachusetts, since 2011, when he left a similar position at BioMérieux.
He owns 9% of the company, which recently received a grant of up to $483 million from the US Department of Health and Human Services to accelerate the development of the COVID-19 vaccine.
According to Bansel, doctors can obtain the vaccine by autumn 2020 for use in emergencies.
DiaSorin 1 of 8
Nationality: Italian
Status: $4.5 billion (32% increase)
Source of wealth: DiaSorin
Denegri was trained as a chemist and now owns 45% of the Italian biotech firm DiaSorin.
However, his career did not begin in the pharmaceutical industry: he first achieved major success in 1985 when he merged Gruppo Pro-Ind, a spare parts company he founded in the 1970s, with Piaggio, the creator of the legendary Vespa scooter.
DiaSorin, which Denegri acquired in 2000, released both smear-based diagnostic kits and blood tests for COVID-19 antibodies.
Her antibody tests, released in April, are now being distributed in several regions of Italy.
DiaSorin has factories in the US, UK, Germany and Italy.
Nationality: South Korea
Status: $8.4 billion (22% increase)
Source of wealth: Celltrion
In 2002, he founded the biopharmaceutical company Celltrion in Seoul, and in 2008, he launched it on the stock exchange.
The company focused on the production of diagnostic kits and the search for possible treatments for COVID-19.
Clinical trials of the antiviral drug in humans are expected to begin in the third quarter of 2020.
A set of Celltrion for rapid self-diagnosis, which the company claims can produce results within 15-20 minutes, will be released in the summer.
Nationality: French
Status: $7.6 billion (25% increase)
Source of wealth: BioMérieux
In 1963, Mérieux founded BioMérieux as a diagnostic unit of the Institut Mérieux, a medical conglomerate that was created in 1897 by Mérieux's grandfather, Marcel.
The company is now headed by Allen's son, Alexander.
The COVID-19 diagnostic kit, which BioMérieux released in late March, reduced the testing time for the virus to 45 minutes.
Nationality: Swiss
Status: $3.2 billion (10% increase)
Source of wealth: Roche
Maja Oeri is the daughter of Fritz Hofmann-La Roche, who founded the Swiss pharmaceutical company Roche in 1896.
It owns approximately 5% of the company, and in 2011 it separated its share from the family.
On March 19, Roche announced that it was moving to phase three clinical trials of tocilizumab, an anti-arthritis drug, to treat patients with COVID-19 in the United States.
In addition, the company has developed a new serological test that detects antibodies in people who have already suffered from the disease.
Roche plans to begin delivery of tests to the US and Europe in early May.
Leonard Schleifer
Nationality: United States
Status: $2.2 billion (11% increase)
Source of wealth: Regeneron Pharmaseutics
George Yankopoulos
Nationality: United States
Status: $1.2 billion (14% increase)
Source of wealth: Regeneron Pharmaseutics
In 1988, Regeneron Pharmaceuticals CEO Leonard Schleifer founded a pharmaceutical company in Tarrytown, New York, and a year later George Yankopoulos joined him as scientific director.
On March 16, Regeneron began clinical trials of sarilumaba, a drug against rheumatic arthritis, on patients with COVID-19 in New York City with the French company Sanofi.
Preliminary results from the second phase of testing showed that the drug rapidly lowered the level of the key marker of inflammation, and the third phase of testing will take place in May.
Nationality: German
Status: $6.9 billion (11% increase)
Source of wealth: BioNTech
The Strungman billionaire twins became wealthy when they sold Hexal to Novartis in 2005 for about $7 billion.
They are now investing in a number of health and biotechnology companies through their Swiss investment firm Santo Holding.
Their most famous investment is BioNTech, a young biotech company from Mainz, Germany.
Together with Pfizer and Fosun Pharmaceuticals, BioNTech is working on the COVID-19 vaccine: the first human trials began in Germany on April 23, and the company is now awaiting regulatory approval to begin delivery to the US.
Nationality: Singapore
Status: $12.6 billion (1% increase)
Source of wealth: Mindray
In 1991, Lee Sitin founded Mindray Medical International in Shenzhen.
Since then, the company has become the largest manufacturer of medical equipment in China.
Mindray has been active in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic since the virus first appeared in China: it has tripled the production of artificial lung ventilation devices (IVLs) at the Shenzhen plant to 3,000 units per month, according to Chinese media.
The company donated $4.6 billion in medical equipment, including urgently needed IVLs, to hospitals around the world, including Italy and Uhan.
Nationality: French
Status: $1.5 billion (109% increase since March 11)
Source of wealth: Modern
Bansel has been the CEO of Moderna Therapeutics, based in Cambridge, Massachusetts, since 2011, when he left a similar position at BioMérieux.
He owns 9% of the company, which recently received a grant of up to $483 million from the US Department of Health and Human Services to accelerate the development of the COVID-19 vaccine.
According to Bansel, doctors can obtain the vaccine by autumn 2020 for use in emergencies.