In China, a new outbreak of coronavirus began in Beijing.
China reports dozens of new cases of coronavirus in Beijing for the second day in a row, fueling fear of a second wave of the epidemic, while European countries are opening borders after quarantine.
Source: National Health Commission of China, Bangkok Post and other media
Details: Chinese authorities report that on 14 June, 49 new confirmed infections were recorded in mainland China: 10 imported cases and 39 local cases, of which 36 were in Beijing.
No deaths were recorded there on Sunday.
The Bangkok Post writes that on 15 June, Chinese health officials reported that 75 cases of respiratory diseases were currently reported in Beijing.
The new cluster is linked to the Xinfadi wholesale food market.
More than 10,000 people in Beijing have already been tested, including market workers, locals, and all who have visited the market in recent weeks.
People were standing in line at the stadium, where they were conducting mass testing.
Officials said they planned to test 46,000 people living in the Fentai area.
There are 24 test stations in the district.
In the 21st district of the capital of China, there is a strict localization.
Salmon Business writes that China stopped selling all salmon after coronavirus was discovered on a cutting board for imported fish in Beijing's largest market.
The salmon found in the coronavirus was obtained from the seafood market in Jinsheen.
On Saturday, Chinese authorities blocked areas around the Sinfadi market after 51 people tested positive on COVID-19.
In turn, Global Times writes that there are two versions of the origin of the new COVID-19 outbreak in Beijing: contaminated seafood and meat imported from abroad, or people who could cough or chew on seafood or meat.
An expert from the Beijing Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, Jan Pan, said on Sunday that the virus found in samples from the market is linked to strains of cases imported from Europe.
The Beijing Centre will now conduct an epidemiological investigation of early and key cases, as well as additional tests on a strain of the virus found in the Sinfadi cluster.
On Sunday, authorities reported that 394 close contacts related to the Sinfadi market had been tracked, 242 of them from the Fentai area.
At the time, 111 people were quarantined in designated areas, while the rest were in isolation at home.
China was the first country to discover a new coronavirus in late 2019.
It spread from the market in Wuhan, Hubei Province.
In early 2020, Chinese authorities imposed severe restrictions on movement, reducing local coronavirus transmission to near zero in March, while the epidemic spread worldwide.
The pandemic in Latin America is now gaining momentum, with Iran and India reporting alarming increases in mortality and infections, raising concerns about the peaceful struggle against COVID-19.
At the same time, news from Europe has improved, with the number of cases falling in recent weeks.
Many countries are gradually removing painful quarantine restrictions.