Pompeo stated that the U.S. had evidence of laboratory origin for COVID-19.
US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo confirmed the laboratory origin of the COVID-19 coronavirus SARS-CoV-2 from the Chinese city of Wuhan and the Chinese authorities' attempts to conceal the extent of the threat of its spread.
"We can confirm that the Communist Party of China did everything it could to prevent the world from knowing what was happening in time," he said in an interview with ABC News.
We said from the beginning that the virus came from Wuhan in China.
We've had a lot of it, but I think the whole world is seeing it now, "said Pompeo, citing" enough evidence "of the virus's origin.
It was not the first time the world had faced the threat of the spread of the virus "because of the failure of the Chinese laboratory."
Pompeo also recalled that, as President Donald Trump had said earlier, "those responsible will be brought to justice."
Asked whether the new coronavirus was man-made or genetically modified, Pompeo said he saw no reason to doubt the experts' conclusions that the virus was created by man.
However, when asked to clarify that the Office of the Director of National Intelligence had concluded that coronavirus was not man-made or genetically modified, Pompeo replied that there was no reason to question the findings of the experts and intelligence.
China has behaved like an authoritarian regime, trying to hide, hide and confuse.
He used the World Health Organization as a tool for that.
It is these things that have caused a huge crisis, huge human losses and huge economic costs all over the world, "said Pompeo.
The Secretary of State did not reply to the question whether the coronavirus was planned or the result of an accident.
President Trump had earlier stated that the SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus had spread from the Virology Institute in Wuhan, China.
He confirmed to the journalists that he had seen evidence that allowed him "with a high degree of confidence" to believe that.
Asked what gave him such confidence, he said that he "cannot say that."
China's guilt in the coronavirus pandemic is also mentioned in the files of the "Five Eyes" alliance, which includes US, Canadian, British, Australian and New Zealand intelligence agencies, as reported earlier today by the Australian newspaper The Daily Telegraph.
A Western intelligence report states that China's authorities "threatened other countries" by hiding news of coronavirus, silencing or "disappearing" doctors who talked about it, destroying laboratory data on the virus, or refusing to provide samples to international vaccine scientists.