History of the virus: When people started getting COVID-19
More and more data indicate that the first stage of coronavirus proliferation occurs unnoticed.
This is an additional argument in favour of strict measures even in isolated cases
Scientists from China, Italy, and Spain independently concluded that coronavirus appeared in populations well before the first officially recorded cases.
And while China and Italy provide indirect information on abnormal outbreaks of pneumonia, in Spain the direct evidence is a study of the exhumed.
Early circulation
On March 3, 2020, news came from Spain that many did not consider important.
It was reported that the first death from coronavirus, determined by a retrospective study, was recognized in the country.
Valencia authorities confirmed that a 69-year-old man who had returned from a trip to Nepal had died on 13 February of a severe pneumonia of unknown origin.
A second autopsy carried out after the Ministry of Health changed the criteria for finding the infected on 27 February gave a positive analysis on COVID-19.
At that time, there were 19 patients in the Valencia region.
By 27 March, there were 3.2 thousand of them, 167 dead.
In Italy, where it has never been clear from whom the first non-communicable patient, 38-year-old Mattia of Codonio, was infected, a wide variety of data points to an earlier circulation of the virus.
Virologists from the University of Milan and Sacco Hospital in Milan have claimed that genome mapping indicates the presence of SVID-2019 in Italy as early as November.
Medical statistics are consistent with this: unusual outbreaks of severe pneumonia were observed by doctors as early as October.
Finally, a recent detailed study of laboratory samples combined with a patient survey reliably establishes that as early as February 20, the day the first patient was diagnosed, the virus was circulating in Southern Lombardy.
The origin of Mattia's disease has been studied through phylogenetic studies of the virus genome.
The fact is that the virus is constantly mutating, and by studying the genomes of viruses from different patients in different countries, you can trace its evolution in a way that linguists study the evolution of languages.
The Mattia virus appears to be related to the first local outbreak of the infection in Europe, which occurred on 19 January in Munich, but the human-to-human transmission chain has not been established.