Wearing masks in Armenian schools in agreement with the Ministry of Health - Araik Arutyunyan
Deputies and senators demanded that Azerbaijan release Armenian prisoners in front of the central entrance to Congress.
Ararat Mirzoyan and Victoria Chmilite-Nielsen discussed the situation in Karabakh.
The Armenian Speaker recalled that Azerbaijan continues to flagrantly violate the joint statement of 9 November 2020 by refusing to return prisoners and other detainees.
The Head of the Seimas noted that Lithuania was concerned about both the process of returning prisoners and the infringement of Armenian cultural heritage.
Roman Berezovsky showed a football class in Armenian school
The goalkeeping coach of the Armenian national football team, ex-goalkeeper Zenit and other Russian FC visited Moscow School No. 2042 named after Lazarev, where mainly children from Armenian families study.
Ex-goalkeeper of the Armenian national team gave advice to the children:.........
Even with a strong passion for sports, one must simultaneously strive for knowledge.
Armenian President Armen Sargsyan expressed condolences to Russian leader Vladimir Putin on the tragedy in Kazan.
Nicole Pashinyan sent Vladimir Putin a telegram
The Acting Prime Minister of Armenia expressed condolences on the tragedy in one of the schools in Kazan.
The number of people killed as a result of the shooting at school No. 175 in Kazan, according to preliminary data, increased to 11, and 32 more were injured.
It is known that 19-year-old Galyaviev Ilnaz organized a massacre in an educational institution out of hatred.
The Prime Minister of Georgia will meet with the Acting Prime Minister of Armenia Nikol Pashinyan and the Acting Foreign Minister Ara Aivazian on 12 May.
The head of the Central Election Commission of Armenia, Tigran Mukuchyan, announced at a press conference that the parties and blocs will start the election campaign on 7 June and finish it carefully at 24: 00 on 18 June.
CEC Secretary Armen Smbatyan reported that there would no longer be any need to use pens in voting, as ballots would not have the names of local candidates on the reverse side.
The Armenian Ministry of Foreign Affairs expressed condolences to the families and friends of the victims of the Kazan school.
We wish an early recovery to all those affected by this tragedy.
The number of people killed as a result of the shooting at school No. 175 in Kazan, according to preliminary data, increased to 11, and 32 more were injured.
It is known that 19-year-old Galyaviev Ilnaz organized a massacre in an educational institution out of hatred.
Read more in the video @ SputnikArmenia.
I have in mind both the return of the bodies of the dead and the clarification of the fate of the missing, the return of prisoners of war and the resolution of the problems associated, as is commonly said, with the material remnants of war, in this case,.
The judge in the case, Anna Danibekyan, stated that the reason was the absence of one of the persons in the case, the former head of administration of the Head of State, Armen Gevor.
His lawyer, Eric Aleksanyan, stated that he had health problems with his client,