The head of the Federal Office of Consumer Protection sees no need to wear masks after vaccination
The need to wear masks will disappear when people are provided with COVID-19 coronavirus vaccine, said the head of Rosconsumpoversight, the chief state health doctor of Russia Anna Popova.
Today, October 27, the agency reported new restrictions due to the coronavirus, including the mandatory wearing of masks.
We'll find ways to protect ourselves.
And today we already have vaccines that can protect us, and we will stop wearing masks, "said Ms. Popova at the forum" Healthy Society "(Interfax quote).
She replied negatively to the question whether the coronavirus pandemic would lead to the permanent need to wear protective masks.
She believes that Russians already have a habit of using personal protective equipment.
"I want to say that we wear masks and my hands every year, starting in 2017, in general the population of the Russian Federation was involved in this orbit when the flu came, people were walking in masks - it was a serious achievement of the terrible winter of 2016, when we broke this and 40% of the population in public places, according to experts, started to walk in masks," said the head of Rosconsumpoversight.
She said that in the future it would be possible to reduce the time needed for diagnosis, for modification in the health system and for finding a protective remedy for coronavirus.
Anna Popova believes that a powerful boost to the development of biological science around the world, which happened because of the pandemic, will bring results.
According to the Rospotrebnadzor decree, from October 28, the wearing of masks in places of mass accommodation, transport, parking lots and elevators becomes mandatory.
It is also recommended that the regions limit the work of restaurants and entertainment establishments from 11: 00 to 6: 00.
In the last 24 hours, Russia has recorded a record of 320 deaths from coronavirus.
The total number of deaths from COVID-19 reached 26,589 and the number of infected persons reached 1,547,774.
More about the new restrictions - in the material "A" "Rospotrebnadzor has put a mask on the places of mass residence."
Comments