Is it true that you can get coronavirus through your hair and shoes?
The new coronavirus continues to spread across the planet, while at the same time becoming a myth and hardly a superpower.
Although the World Health Organization has issued an exhaustive list of questions and answers on COVID-19, doubts remain.
For example, how long the virus lives on surfaces or whether it can be transmitted through clothing.
Can coronavirus be on your clothes, hair and shoes?
Short answer: yes, of course.
A new coronavirus can be found on any surface, including clothes, stools, glasses and even a beard.
But it's not that bad.
According to research, the main mode of infection of COVID-19 is human-to-human transmission.
No cases of contamination through food or clothing were detected during the entire epidemic.
This is confirmed by studies carried out in the early stages of the spread of the virus on the planet and later.
For example, a professor of virology and head of the Institute of Virology and HIV Studies at the University of Bonn stated in mid-April that scientists were not yet aware of cases of contamination through items and equipment in supermarkets, beauty parlours and restaurants.
The main source of infection is people who have new coronavirus, so social distance and quarantine are so important for confirmed patients.
It is important to understand some nuances.
If a sick person peed on a cart in a supermarket, which you immediately grabbed, and then lost your nose or scratched your eyes, the risk of infection is definitely there.
If a person sneezes in your face, the risk is even higher.
But if drops of saliva and sputum hit the surface of your clothes, your hair or your shoes, the chances of getting infected are slim.
The fact is that the virus has too much to go on, says Professor Andrew Janowski, a specialist in childhood infectious diseases at the University of Washington.
First, a person who has sneezed should try to spread enough virus-infected mole particles to spread them successfully on your clothing or hair.
Next you need to touch this area and lose any area on your face or eyes with the same hand.
Second, particles of the virus found on any surface tend to weaken over time and become less contagious.
How many viruses live on different surfaces?
On different materials the new coronavirus behaves differently.
According to a March study published in The New England Journal of Medicine, the virus has long-term survival.
On metal and plastic it can stay up to three days, on cardboard it can stay up to 24 hours.
The data from the University of Hong Kong are somewhat different.
They observed that the virus remained on glass and paper for up to four days, and on iron and plastic for up to a week.
According to the same study, the virus can survive up to 48 hours on trees and up to seven days on medical masks.
It is important to realize that the ideal laboratory conditions are created for such research, but in reality many factors can influence its survival.
What about clothes and hair?
No extensive studies have been conducted on how long a new coronavirus can remain on the surface of clothing.
Moreover, each tissue and different materials have different structures - this also affects the survival of the virus.
It is believed that coronavirus lives longer on solid surfaces than on soft and moist surfaces.
For example, some researchers tend to survive two days, others say 24 hours.
For how long coronavirus remains in your hair, scientists have difficulty answering, but they do not advise to worry about it - most likely you regularly take a shower and wash your head.
At the same time, thinking about hairdressing won't stop you.
If you go to a store, a pharmacy, or go on other business in public places, it 's better to put your hair in the tail, behind your ears, or under your rims - so you' re going to do less to fix individual yarn, and therefore touch your face with your hands.
The same is true of the beard (and the lips that many have chosen to grow in quarantine following the "King of Tigers").
On the one hand, the presence of vegetation on the face does not in itself protect against coronavirus, nor does it increase the chances of contracting it, says Professor Amesh Adalia, an infectious disease specialist at Johns Hopkins University.
On the other hand, a thick beard can disrupt the density of the protective mask attached to the face, as well as provoke more frequent hand contact.
In any case, it is important to realize that the presence of the virus on the surface (and even its long survival) does not guarantee 100% contamination.
Most studies are conducted in conditions that are far from real life, and even show a gradual decrease in viral infection over time.
It 's different to touch a cart that has just been touched by an infected person, and to do it in half a day.
Do I have to wash my clothes after the street?
It is not necessary to send all clothes to the laundry immediately upon returning home, nor to wash completely after visiting a street or shop.
In any case, the World Health Organization does not make such recommendations.
Megan Couler Freeman, a senior pediatrician at the UPMC Children's Hospital in Pittsburgh, specializing in infectious diseases, advises first to assess risks.
For example, if you were in a store where you were locked up on a fence, on a shelf, or surrounded by a large number of people, you could send your top clothes to the laundry.
If you were walking down an empty street, planting flowers in your own backyard, or crossing the city on foot, keeping social distance, and not visiting public places, you shouldn 't worry about the virus.
The virus cannot emerge from the air where the infected person has not been.
On the other hand, staying in street clothes (let alone shoes) at home is not worth it either - however, this rule was probably known to you in the pre-coronavirus era.
The main thing to take care of is keeping a social distance.
Then you don 't have to worry about the virus particles getting on your clothes because of people cleaning up around you.
Distance should work on both sides.
If you are standing within one and a half to two meters, do not hesitate politely but strongly remind others who are too close to you.
And more often my hands.
Upon returning home, after meeting the courier or after shopping.
You know about the ideal 20 seconds, during which you have to distribute soap intensively by hand, even without us.
But the head of the infectious immunology department at Wolfson Children's Hospital in Jacksonville, Mobin Razor, recalls the fingernails and the space under them.
Especially relevant if you remain on self-isolation with gel-lacquer and growing length.
Parts of the virus can also be stored under the fingernails, so these areas need to be thoroughly washed.
You can also learn to touch your face less - this habit will be useful even after the epidemic.
Text: Tanya Reshetnik
Discuss this text on Facebook