Armdaily.am disseminates false information about the arrest of the "creator" of the coronavirus
Armdaily.am 6 April.
published
An article titled "In the United States, Covid-19 creator arrested for China (video)."
According to the WCVB website, an American scientist from Harvard University sold the virus to China.
This is Dr. Charles Lieber, Head of the Department of Chemistry and Biology at Harvard University.
This American scientist signed a contract with Uhan University to study Covid-19, "the site wrote, adding that an investigation had been initiated into the emergence and spread of a new type of coronavirus.
A WCVB report is attached to the material, in which an alleged representative of the U.S. Department of Justice provides details of the Liber case.
The fact-finding platform found that a scientist named Charles Liber had indeed been arrested, but the grounds for initiating criminal proceedings were quite different.
Moreover, these events took place two months ago, at the end of January.
On February 28, 2020, the U.S. Department of Justice issued a statement stating: "A Harvard University professor and two Chinese citizens are charged with three separate cases related to China."
According to the statement, Liber is accused of concealing from the U.S. Department of Defense and the National Institute of Health his ties with China.
In particular, he collaborated with a university in Uhani and participated in
programme
The Chinese government's "Thousand Talents Plan," which aimed to concentrate foreign and Chinese professionals working abroad in China.
Lieber concealed the fact that he had received $1.5 million from the Chinese government for the establishment of a laboratory at Wuhan University of Technology.
Liber did not have the right to hide these ties from the U.S. Department of Defense and the National Institute of Health (from which Liber received a grant of $15 million since 2008), as cooperation with the Chinese side caused a conflict of interest.
The statement of the Ministry of Justice made no mention of coronavirus and the secret trials of Liber in China.
The American scientist is accused of concealing funds received from China and has nothing to do with the creation of the coronavirus.
The title of the original video was changed and distributed a few months ago
The video attached to the article Armdaily deserves special attention.
In it, a representative of the United States Department of Justice provides details of the case of Liber and the two Chinese.
The report was prepared by Boston-based WCVB-TV, owned by ABC.
The original material was published on 2 January under the title "Z
Chair, Harvard University
arrested for concealing links with China. "
Zubby Entertainment's YouTube channel released the same video on April 4, but under a different name: "The US discovered a man who created and sold Coronavirus to China.
Dr. Charles Lieber. "
The video received 434,465 views.
There is no mention of coronavirus in the report.
On Russian platforms, a report with a distorted headline spread with the claim that the arrested person is a possible creator of the coronavirus.
It is likely that Armdaily translated his article from Russian sources and may not have read the content of the report.
There is no reasonable evidence that coronavirus is an artificial disease.
As for the news about the artificial origin of the new type of coronavirus, which occasionally comes to the attention of news sites, there is as yet no evidence to support this information.
In 2015, the scientific journal Nature Medicine published an article on coronavirus (SARS-CoV) among bats in China.
The authors considered the possibility of transmission of the virus from bats to humans.
That is, the virus existed even before it caused the epidemic in China in 2019, and there is no serious scientific basis for speculation.
Thus, the article translated by Armdaily.am that the scientist who created the coronavirus was arrested in the United States is not true.
Lucina Voskanyan