Health claims there is no data linking ibuprofen to serious COVID-19 cases
Entry to the University Hospital Alcorcón Foundation, the past jueves.DAVID EXPOSITO
The Spanish Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products (AEMPS) reported this Sunday that "there is currently no data to confirm an aggravation of COVID-19 infection with ibuprofen or other non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, so there is no reason for patients who are on chronic treatment with these drugs to interrupt them."
The statement comes two days after French health minister Olivier Véran made a disturbing warning about the new coronavirus on his Twitter account: "Taking anti-inflammatory drugs (ibuprofen, cortisone...) could be a factor in worsening the infection.
If you have a fever, take paracetamol.
If you are already taking anti-inflammatory drugs or have doubts, consult your doctor. "
The protocol for handling patients drawn up by the Spanish Ministry of Health, however, recommends the "usual analgesics (paracetamol or ibuprofen)" in mild infections of the lower respiratory tract by the new coronavirus, technically named SARS-CoV-2.
The confused alert launched by the French minister is in line with a controversial investigation published on 11 March by the team of Michael Roth of the University of Basel (Switzerland).
The new coronavirus uses a needle-like protein to lock into another human protein, ACE2, which opens the door to lung cells, blood vessels, and other organs.
Once inside, the virus uses its own cellular machinery to create a patch of between 10,000 and 100,000 copies of itself.
The authors of the study, published in the specialist magazine
, hypothesize that ibuprofen activates that ACE2 gate, which would "facilitate infection" with the new coronavirus.
A European committee will decide in May whether ibuprofen really exacerbates infections
The same researchers suggest that some treatments against diabetes and hypertension, with drugs that stimulate ACE2, could increase the risk of developing a serious form of COVID-19, the disease caused by the new coronavirus.
The authors themselves acknowledge that this is only a hypothesis that needs to be confirmed with other studies.
The largest published work to date on risk factors for dying from the new coronavirus analyzed 191 serious patients admitted to two hospitals in Wuhan at the start of the epidemic.
Half of them had other previous diseases, such as hypertension (30%), diabetes (19%), and coronary heart disease (8%), but these are proportions that they would not chirrate in a healthy elderly population.
The EU Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee is studying the alleged exacerbation of infections with ibuprofen or ketoprofen, at the request of France, according to the Spanish Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products (AEMPS), under the Ministry of Health.
"This analysis will be expected to be completed by May 2020 but, with the information available, it is difficult to determine whether this association exists, as ibuprofen is used to treat the initial symptoms of infections and, therefore, the cause-effect relationship is not easy to establish," the agency adds.
AEMPS recalls that the fact sheets for drugs containing ibuprofen already indicate that ibuprofen "can mask the symptoms of infections, which could delay their diagnosis and be the cause of their diagnosis in more prosperous stages, although this refers to infections in general, not specifically COVID-19 infection."
The guides, highlighted by AEMPS in their statement, recommend the use of paracetamol for symptomatic treatment of fever as a first alternative.
However, there is also no evidence against the use of ibuprofen in the treatment of minor symptoms.
In both cases, the drugs should be used on the basis of the fact sheet and at the lowest dose able to control the symptoms, "the agency reports.
Information on coronavirus
- Here you can follow the last minute on the evolution of the pandemic
- Map of coronavirus: this is how cases grow day by day and country by country
- Guide to action against the disease
- If you have symptoms, these are the phones that have been turned on in each community.