The doctors against the "miracle cure" that 'cures' Covid-19: "It's a surface disinfectant"
Far, behind the MMS (Miracle Mineral Solution) there is only far.
It was already known, but the fake miraculous treatment that has persisted for years in hiding its consumers in forums and websites has returned to public and health debate over the Covid-19 pandemic.
Although he was known, the College Medical Organization (WTO) has published a report to remember him.
The reason why doctors are protesting against MMS is that with the spread of the virus, "alternative health care providers," such as the healer Josep Pàmies, have made a hole in the public agenda along with the deniers of the pandemic.
In medicine, only science is relevant and there is a need for contrasting scientific evidence.
You don't just have to serve, you don't have to hurt.
The thing is clear, chlorine dioxide [composed of MMS] does not cure, it damages health.
There is no scientific evidence that it cures, it is not effective and it is not safe because it is harmful to health, and it is prohibited, "he explains.
The Independent
Dr. Pedro Hidalgo, coordinator of the WTO Prescription Observatory that has published the Report on the Assessment of Chlorine dioxide as Treatment Against Coronavirus.
The medical organization has released this document "in the face of recent statements made by doctors who make up the World Health and Life Coalition (COMUSAV) that chlorine dioxide ends up with coronavirus," according to the WTO.
The use of MMS in some countries such as Bolivia has become a public health problem as it has been purchased on a massive scale causing several poisonings.
According to Hidalgo, if a doctor prescribed this false treatment he would be violating his code of ethics.
In this sense, he points out that the World Health and Life Coalition entity is not a medical college with its professionals with the "identification number of the doctors who are enrolled that is their number of enrolled."
Risks of alternative therapies
The doctor points out that alternative therapies, in addition to ineffective, delay the correct treatment of scientific medicine and thus pose a health hazard to those who are treated with them...............................
According to Hidalgo, the doctors had to manifest themselves with this report because "people who don't understand medicine have to know that whoever takes MMS is taking away, a compound that is to disinfect surfaces."
We are all eager to have remedies but as long as no evidence is made, it is not a mistake, it is an illegality and an irresponsibility. "
The document notes that the Spanish Medicines and Health Products Agency AEMPS has on its blacklist MMS as an "illegal drug."
The reason Hidalgo finds that patients buy MMS is in his "desperation and impatience" and according to his opinion these websites should be pursued where they sell, "just as the pages of child pornography should be pursued should be denounced to those who are deceiving the most sensitive and vulnerable.".
In the face of the conspiracy idea of MMS advocates who claim that the product is being pursued because it is not of interest to pharmaceutical companies Hidalgo is forceful: "If we are faced with a remedy, scientifically prove its validity and the doses, because the dosage in a drug is fundamental.
We are all eager to have remedies but as long as no evidence is made, it is not a mistake, it is illegal and irresponsible. "