By Covid-19, the US and Mexico will limit cross-border crossings
By Covid-19, USA and Mexico will limit cross-border crossings | AP
Mexico City - The governments of Mexico and the United States announced on Friday plans to drastically limit travel on their busy common border as part of efforts to control the spread of the coronavirus that causes COVID-19.
Restrictions will apply to recreational and tourist travel.
Mexico, United States and Canada
they also agreed that anyone who crosses their common borders without authorization will be immediately returned to their country of origin due to the potential health danger of detaining people from all over the world.
President Donald Trump and Mexican Foreign Secretary Marcelo Ebrard said the two governments agreed to ban recreational and tourist travel, similar to the restrictions imposed earlier this week along the US-Canada border.
Trump said that actions "will save countless lives."
US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said the restrictions will come into effect at Friday's last minute and will remain in force as long as necessary.
There will be no ban on travel between Mexico and the United States for work or other essential activities, and commercial traffic will not be stopped, Ebrard said.
Of "everyone else we don't expect to have any difficulty," he added after insisting, "we're not talking about closure."
By excluding trade traffic from the ban, the two governments substantially softened the economic effects of the measure.
Fewer Americans are also heading south due to a state order in California that almost all stay in their homes and a State Department warning that Americans are advised not to travel abroad.
However, restrictions are an important event along the world's most cross-border.
Acting United States Secretary of Homeland Security Chad Wolf told the press in the White House that the restrictions were aimed at "eliminating non-essential border travel."
We want to ensure that freight transport continues, trade continues, health workers continue to be able to cross that border.
But tourism, some recreational activities and other things must stop during the crisis, "he said.
In recent days, US officials have described plans to return immediately to Mexico anyone crossing the border without authorization, including asylum seekers, under a law aimed at containing the spread of infectious diseases.
The measure announced on Friday includes migrants crossing the United States and Canada without authorization.
Ebrard said he would only accept the return of migrants from Central America and Mexico.
Trump said he supported the Mexican position.
Why would Mexico accept people who are not from Mexico?
he said.
They return to the country where they came from.
Officials from the United States Customs and Border Protection (CBP) briefed business leaders Thursday on plans to ban non-essential travel, said Paola Avila, president of the Border Trade Alliance business chamber.
The United States provided a long list of "essential" workers who would not be affected by the restrictions, including farm laborers, restaurant and other food business workers, and bus drivers, Avila added.
Mexico was preparing similar measures for visitors from the United States.
The measure will de facto close the United States to tourist and recreational visits from the southern border, said Avila, who participated in a teleconference with CBP representatives.
Maintaining the trade flow, as the US and Canada have agreed, contains economic damage.
Mexico is the main trading partner of the United States, above only Canada.
The United States accounts for 75% of Mexican exports, including cars, computers, and medical devices.
Stopping the crossing with students, buyers, families, and many workers will be a big blow to border economies, and the impact is already beginning to feel.