Is it true that there is a variety of poisonous yucca that can be lethal to humans?
Is there any way to distinguish it from the good yuca, which is eaten daily?
But not in the sense that the question probably had.
For a very long time, wild animals carried viruses like this.
Some get sick and die, others get sick but sick and still live, and others are healthy carriers.
Predators are those who either developed some kind of immunity to these viruses, or the benefit of eating them exceeds that of those who die infected.
But in all cases, these "transactions" developed in nature, away from humans, and within a dynamic equilibrium (at last all).
The possibility is low and seems to be a window that closes more and more quickly.
It is a new virus and not much is known about it.
Also, that science always seeks to offer the best temporal explanation, in accordance with the best evidence available at the moment.
Science does not offer absolutely definitive answers, so many things can change in the future.
That said, let us get into the matter.
A recent study (March 17, 2020) addressed this issue directly.
[1] And, in summary, the authors concluded that SARS-C
1- All that can be infected are infected (see Black Death in medieval Europe, Smallpox in the Age of Exploration of America, Spanish Influenza in 1918-1920)
2- Government action finds all those who are ill, quarantine them and prevents further spread (see Wuhan China, 2020, SARS in China in 2002, Ebola in West Africa, 2018)
3- Transmission slows down in hot / dry climates (see influenza, every year)
We still don't know if Covid-19 will slow down when the Northern Hemisphere becomes prime.
We will answer as if the question is out of the question (which is not; and it is not because the concept of race applied to humans is aberrant: a single Central African region contains more genetic diversity than all humanity on the rest of the planet, even though a racist pallet would classify them all as a supposed black race).
Let's get to it:
The Sentinels.
They've been crossing with no one for millennia.
If you were thinking of some European ethnicity (not a race), you were fucked: Europeans are bastards who even have Neanderthal blood.
Besides, we're all black.