Contact tracing applications in Bahrain, Kuwait and Norway are among the most privacy-sensitive
Contact tracing applications in Bahrain, Kuwait and Norway are among the most dangerous to privacy Amnesty International research reveals that Bahrain, Kuwait and Norway have implemented some of the world's most invasive COVID-19 contact tracing applications, which endanger the privacy and security of hundreds of thousands of people.
Amnesty's Security Lab project has examined contact tracing applications from Europe, the Middle East and North Africa, specifically conducting a detailed technical analysis of 11 applications from Algeria, Bahrain, the United Arab Emirates, France, Iceland, Israel, Kuwait, Lebanon, Norway, Qatar and Tunisia, some of which are from bad to dangerous for human rights.
The "BeAware Bahrain," "Shlonik" and "Smitttestopp" applications from Bahrain, Kuwait and Norway, respectively, are among the most alarming mass surveillance tools evaluated by Amnesty, because all three carry out direct or near-direct user location tracking, uploading GPS coordinates to a central server at frequent intervals.
Bahrain, Kuwait, and Norway have ignored the privacy of people with invasive surveillance tools that exceed the limits that are justified to deal with COVID-19.
Privacy should not be another casualty of governments' rush to implement applications.
Claudio Guarnieri, director of Amnesty International's Security Lab project.
On Monday, the Norwegian government announced that it would suspend the use of its contact tracing application.
This decision was taken only hours before Amnesty International made its analysis public and after the organisation had communicated its findings to the Norwegian authorities and the country's data protection agency on 2 June.
Amnesty had also met with the person responsible for developing the Smitttestopp application on 10 June.
"Bahrain, Kuwait and Norway have ignored the privacy of people with highly invasive surveillance tools that go beyond what is justified to deal with COVID-19," said Claudio Guarnieri, director of Amnesty International's Security Lab project.
The Norwegian application was highly invasive, and what the authorities have to do is rethink its use.
We urge the Bahraini and Kuwaiti governments to also immediately end the use of these intrusive applications in their current form.
Basically, they transmit user locations to a government database in real time, which is unlikely to be necessary and provided in the context of a public health response.
Technology can play a very useful contact tracing function to contain COVID-19, but privacy cannot be another casualty of governments' rush to implement applications. "
Mass surveillance tools
Contact tracing applications in Bahrain, Kuwait and Norway apply an invasive centralized approach, which poses a serious threat to privacy.
These systems capture location data via GPS and upload it to a central database, tracking users' movements in real time.
The Qatar application "EHTERAZ" offers the option to enable direct contact tracing of all users or specific persons (at the time of writing these lines is disabled).
Screen capture of the Bahrain BeAware contact tracing application.
The authorities in all these countries can easily link this sensitive personal information to a person, as Qatar, Bahrain and Kuwait require users to register with a national identity card number, while Norway requires registration with a valid telephone number.
Other applications analyzed by Security Lab, such as Tunisia's E7mi, also follow a centralized model, but instead of recording GPS coordinates, they use Bluetooth proximity scanning to track user-to-user contacts in real time.
The Qatar application "EHTERAZ" records and raises Bluetooth contact between users' devices, along with the GPS coordinates of the encounter.
The Qatari application identified a serious security vulnerability that left sensitive personal data of more than a million people exposed.
This vulnerability was especially worrying, as the use of the application was mandatory from 22 May.
She was forced to resign after Amnesty warned the authorities at the end of May.
The security failure would have allowed cyber-attackers access to highly sensitive personal information, including the user's name, national identity document, state of health, and assigned confinement location.
Tracking applications from countries such as the United Arab Emirates, France and Iceland use a centralized model, but information on contact between user devices is only raised if users voluntarily decide to report that they are symptomatic or health authorities request it.
These voluntary and agreed increases reduce at least the risk of mass surveillance, as the data do not automatically emerge.
France's centralized model of contact tracing application, coupled with a lack of transparency about how to store data, raises the suspicion that user information may cease to be anonymous.
Governments around the world need not rush into flawed and excessively intrusive contact tracing applications that do not protect human rights.
For contact tracing applications to play an effective role in the fight against COVID-19, people need to be sure that their privacy will be protected, "said Claudio Guarnieri.
New forms of surveillance
Bahrain's application was even linked to a national television program called "Are You at Home?
, "in which awards were given for staying home during Ramadan.
With the contact data collected through the application, 10 random phone numbers were selected each day via a computer program and called them live to check if the users of the application were at their home.
If they were, they won a prize.
The inclusion in the draw of the television program was mandatory at first, but then the Bahrain Electronic and Information Administration added to the BeAware Bahrain application an option that allowed users to choose not to participate in the television contest.
The Bahraini authorities have also posted on the Internet sensitive personal information on alleged COVID-19 cases, including a person's state of health, nationality, age, gender and travel history.
Bahraini and Kuwaiti applications can be combined with a Bluetooth bracelet to ensure that the user is near the phone and thus enforce quarantine measures.
The Kuwaiti periodically checks the distance between the bracelet and the device and every 10 minutes climbs the location to a central server.
Location data and additional Bluetooth bracelet diagnostic information linked to the BeAware Bahrain application are sent to a central server at frequent intervals.
It is mandatory for all persons included in residential quarantine records to wear the bracelet, and if they do not wear the bracelet, they may be sanctioned under Public Health Act No. 34 (2018), which allows sentences of up to three months' imprisonment, fines of between 1,000 and 10,000 Bahrein dinars (about 2,700 and 27,000 US dollars), or both.
Privacy and human rights in design
Contact tracing is an important component of an effective pandemic response, and contact tracing applications can be useful for this purpose.
But in order to be compatible with human rights, contact tracing applications must, among other things, incorporate data protection and privacy into their design, which means that the data collected must be minimal and stored safely.
Any data collection should be limited to controlling the spread of COVID-19 and have no other purpose, such as enforcing the law, ensuring national security or controlling immigration.
It should not be made available to third parties or used for commercial purposes.
The individual decision to download and use contact tracing applications should be entirely voluntary.
Data collected must always be anonymous, even if combined with other data sets.
Governments that implement real-time location tracking contact tracing applications need to rethink their use.
There are better options, which address the need to track the spread of the disease without gathering sensitive personal information from millions of people, "said Claudio Guarnieri.