Experts question new hypotheses about the origin and initial transmission of the coronavirus that links street dogs
A recent study suggests that street dogs, especially their gut tissue, may have contributed to the evolution of a parent of SARS-CoV-2, which points to the need to include wild dogs in virus surveillance programs.
This study, from the University of Ottawa (Canada) and published by
, to propose a new hypothesis on the origin and initial transmission of the current coronavirus.
Other research has indicated that pangolins had been the intermediaries for SARS-CoV-2 to reach from bats to humans.
The ancestor of SARS-Cov-2 and its closest relative, a bat coronavirus, "infected the intestines of canids, which most likely resulted in a rapid evolution of the virus in canids and its jump to humans," considers the author of the study Xuhua Xia, who considers it important to monitor SARS-like coronaviruses in wild dogs for the fight against SARS-CoV-2.
Xia has long studied the molecular signatures of viruses, because when viruses invade a host, their genomes often carry "battle scars to fight and evade the immune system" of the infected through changes and adaptations found in their genomes, details agency
EFE
On the possibility that dogs could transmit SARS-CoV2 at this time, Xian noted that for this the animal would have to have established a population of coronavirus in a tissue in contact with the outside, but there is no evidence for this at this time.
Study Receives Criticism
Xia's investigation has her voices against it.
"I find it difficult to understand how the author has been able to conclude from this study, or to make a hypothesis, that the virus that causes COVID-19 may have evolved through dogs," says James Wood, Head of the Department of Veterinary Medicine and Infection and Disease Control Research at Cambridge University.
Wood considers that there is too much inference and too little direct data.
I see nothing in this document that supports this assumption and I am concerned that this document has been published in this magazine.
I do not think any dog owner should be concerned as a result of this work, "the expert adds to the
Professor of Virology at the Roslin Institute at the University of Edinburgh, Paul Digard, notes that Xia's research takes a very limited approach to examining the SARS-CoV-2 sequence in search of clues about its origin that do not provide convincing support for the hypothesis that dogs were the source of the virus.
Daniella Dos Santos, president of the British Veterinary Association (BVA), points out that this research is purely theoretical and that "the author himself points out that to date there is no evidence that dogs can replicate or eliminate the virus that causes COVID-19".
"We urge extreme caution in interpreting it as more than a reminder that work is being done to consider the origins of the virus," he noted.
(II)