Coronavirus: the US study that raises doubts about the start of the pandemic
The United States is the country with the highest number of cases of coronavirus.
Almost a year after the first alarms were triggered by the emergence of the new Sars-CoV-2 coronavirus, the scientific community continues to make intriguing discoveries about the origin of the pandemic.
A study published this November 30th in the magazine
prepared by experts from the United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) added new doubts about the real start of the Covid-19 pandemic.
The official timeline points to 31 December 2019, when the health authority of the Chinese city of Wuhan issued an alert on a number of cases associated with a mysterious respiratory virus.
The common point among patients was a municipal market that sold live and dead wild animals.
Now, 11 months later, researchers linked to the US government have retroactively identified 39 people from three states in the country who had developed antibodies to coronavirus two weeks before the alert in China.
Maybe you're also interested
The United States did not officially identify the first case in the country until January 21, 2020.
The study was based on blood samples from donations collected by the Red Cross.
The study was based on blood samples from donations made between December 13, 2019 and January 17, 2020.
The 7,389 samples analyzed were routinely collected from donations organized by the Red Cross in nine U.S. states.
Of 1,912 sample donations made between December 13 and 16, 39 were positive (26 in California and 16 in Oregon or Washington).
A further 67 samples containing the virus were identified between donations made between 30 December 2019 and 17 January 2020.
The average age of infected people was 52 years and the majority were men.
For the authors of the study, some of these identified antibodies must have been linked to other types of coronavirus circulating around the world, but the large number of people found with these antibodies in the analysis indicates that another part was very likely to have covid-19 at the time.
But how does this change what we know about the beginning of the pandemic?
What is known so far is that the first major outbreak occurred in Wuhan in December 2019, but several indications suggest that the virus had been circulating around the world weeks or months earlier.
It is estimated that the first outbreak of the new coronavirus occurred in a wild animal market in Wuhan.
The authors of the study that identified antibodies to the new coronavirus in dozens of people in the United States say this discovery has some limitations, including determining whether people were infected in their own country or during travel.
A survey previously conducted by the Red Cross itself to learn the profile of its donors gives some clues.
Of the total, 3% said they had traveled abroad in the month prior to the donation, and only 5% of that 3% said that the destination of that trip was Asia.
This discovery is not the first (and probably not the last) to point to the presence of the virus before the official alert in China.
Researchers from at least four countries, including Brazil, noted the presence of the new coronavirus in wastewater samples collected weeks or months before the first official outbreak in China.
The study that attracted the most attention was led by researchers from the University of Barcelona.
According to them, there was presence of the new coronavirus in frozen samples collected in Spain since 15 January 2020 (41 days before the first official notification in the country) and since 12 March 2019 (nine months before the first reported case in China).
The analysis of wastewater allows the presence of covid-19 in a given locality to be detected.....................
But it is still unclear how and when the Sars-CoV-2 virus began to infect people.
Neither animal "jumped" the virus to humans.
There is consensus among scientists that the first outbreak occurred in a Wuhan market that sold live and dead wild animals.
But researchers do not know whether the virus appeared there or "took advantage" of the conditions of the place to spread from one person to another.
"If you ask me what the biggest possibility is, I would say the virus comes from markets that sell wild animals," Yuen Kwok-yung, a microbiologist at the University of Hong Kong told the BBC.
China's own timeline on the virus has receded, which is common when it comes to the emergence of a rapidly spreading disease, such as covid-19.
A study by doctors in Wuhan, published in January by the medical magazine
, found that (so far) the first case of covid-19 was detected on December 1, 2019 and had no apparent link to the public wildlife market.
Some experts also say that it is unlikely that a virus with the potential to become a pandemic could circulate around the world for months without being detected.
But traveling for weeks could be more feasible, especially during the winter in the Northern Hemisphere.
There is also doubt as to when the new coronavirus arrived in Brazil and began circulating in the country.
The first official diagnosis in South America occurred on February 26, 2020.
It was a 61-year-old businessman from São Paulo who was returning from a trip to Italy, which by then was the second epicentre of the pandemic.
There is evidence that the first infection in Brazil occurred a month before the disease was officially detected.
But a team led by researchers from the Federal University of Santa Catarina (UFSC) identified the presence of the virus as of 27 November 2019 in the Florianópolis sewer.
In addition, researchers from the Oswaldo Cruz Foundation pointed out the existence of at least one case of Sars-Cov-2 in Brazil a month before the first official registration, which took place between 19 and 25 January 2020.
It is not known whether this person was infected during a trip or by community transmission (from other inhabitants of the place where he lives or moves).
You can now receive notifications from BBC News World.
Download our app and activate it so you don't lose our best content.