Look out!
: The viruses that most attacked pymes last year
Without a doubt, 2020 has been the year of the coronavirus, which has affected the health sector, paralyzed the economy almost entirely for a few months, and subsequently slowed it down in not a few sectors.
But in addition to COVID-19, which we 're still fighting with the arrival of vaccines, and the restrictions that have been put in place, in 2020, there' s also been another kind of virus, in this case cybernetic.
Although computer viruses are not unique to 2020, the pandemic has contributed to their expansion.
Cybercriminals have taken advantage of the increase in teleportation as well as other circumstances to try to make their own.
crowdfunding projects following the COVID-19
Avast identified malicious advertising campaigns with the name and logo of the World Health Organization and malware hidden in files propagated by email, SMS and other malicious programs.
In addition, through its mobile threat intelligence platform, apklab.io, Avast tracked over 600 malicious applications, including mobile banking trojans and spy software, posing as applications offering some kind of COVID-19-related service.
Fake news had wide reach during the pandemic, including conspiracy theories, legends such as that 5G was responsible for spreading the virus or that Bill Gates' black hand financed the creation of the virus to sell vaccines and increase its share of power.
As for ransomware, it increased especially at the beginning of the pandemic: the most powerful threat of recent times grew by 20% during March and April compared to January and February this year.
Hospitals were targeted by cybercriminals' hunger: one of many examples was the University Hospital in Brno in the Czech Republic, which is also a testing centre for the coronavirus, infected with Defray777.
Health care institutions were attacked by the Maze ransomware, which steals data before encrypting it and threatens to release hostage data if the ransom is not paid.
Other notable victims of ransomware attacks in 2020, which have paid millions of ransom demands, include the University of California in San Francisco, Travelex and companies such as Garmin, Jack Daniels and Ritz Londo.
Telegram also showed its most vulnerable face: a survey revealed that half of European employees worked part-time from home during the pandemic.
Employees took the company's devices home, which widened the strike area of the companies, as the home network infrastructure has less security than a business network.
It was also the year of the launch of deepfakes, especially pornographers, who camped their widgets on networks such as TikTok or Telegram, with the help of bot accomplices.
They are increasingly realistic, abundant, and confused: those of a political nature can confuse or persuade the population.
For its part, the unimaginable phishing also slowed down in 2020.
While Covid-19-related phishing attacks increased in March, phishing rall numbers were small: less than 1% of global attacks using this technique used Covid-19 as a theme throughout the year.
Of all Android threats that Avast detected in 2020, adware was the dominant malware, with a share of nearly 50% in the first quarter, more than 27% in the second and 29% in the third quarter of all Android threats.
The cybersecurity firm found more than 50 fraudulent applications in Google Play and Apple App Stores in 2020.
Users reported that they were attacked with ads promoting adware applications on YouTube, and in September we saw the spread of adware through profiles on TikTok.
The popularity of these social networks makes them an attractive advertising platform, also for cybercriminals, to reach a younger audience. "
said Jakub Vavra, a threat analyst for Avast.
Cyberpunk 2077.
Cybercriminals have found in social engineering one of their main support in planning their attacks on users.
This has become evident in recent months, when numerous campaigns have been launched to mislead the Internet on pandemic-related issues.
Now, criminals are taking advantage of interest in Cyberpunk 2077, the new and controversial video game developed by CD Projekt, to hack mobile phones with ransomware-like viruses.
A code that is able to hijack a device and then request a rescue from the victim to regain control, ABC reports.
Joker
The Joker is very funny, in fact, with the popularization of the film The Joker we know perfectly what the character does and, above all, his chilling tastes.
What we do not know is that this fictional character is humanized through a virus.
It sounds a little scary, but let 's see what it does.
This virus works as a ransomware, and its authors have a single goal; that is, to spread it across all systems in the world.
To achieve this goal, they encourage other hackers to pay between $90 and $600 and become members, as Tecnicanet claims.
In addition, once this virus enters the computer, it leaves the user with nothing.
Nor is there any money left with users or the key to decrypt the data.
How can I protect myself?
Make sure to surf safely, update the backup applications and operating system regularly, and always have a backup of essential files.