COVID-19 was already circulating in Brazil before the first confirmed case in Wuhan
The coronavirus was already circulating before the confirmation of the first case in Wuhan.
This is what a study in collaboration with the Federal University of Santa Catalina in Florianópolis (Brazil) revealed, in which remains of the virus have been found in the fecal waters of the Latin American country.
The first case of COVID-19 was confirmed by the Chinese authorities to the World Health Organization (WHO) on 27 November 2019.
This was explained by David Rodríguez Lázaro, one of the experts who participated in this study, in which they were able to collect samples from the beginning of autumn 2019 until March 2020, when quarantine was decreed in Brazil.
With their analysis, under "a standard protocol of virus concentration and subsequent PCR detection," they were able to see that, effectively, the virus was already circulating in the country until almost three months before the first confirmed case in Brazil..
"It's almost two months, 56 days exactly, before the first description," commented the Spanish in the program 'Horizonte', of Cuatro.
The first message we get from this study is that the virus was circulating long before we thought.
And the second is that we have to ask ourselves when, really, this virus began to be present in the global community. "
The exact date of the virus's origin, in doubt
These results make the exact date of the virus's appearance a mystery.
According to Rodriguez Lázaro, the origin of COVID-19 remains a mystery although, all experts agree that "it is undoubtedly an animal virus, a zoonotic virus."
Furthermore, although the Wuhan market has not been the main source of coronavirus, it has been a "trigger" for its expansion.
"It's very possible," says the Spanish, taking into account the custom of "eating exotic animals."
That we found it in Brazil, in November 2019, all it means is that the virus was circulating before.
We all agree that we cannot date reliably when it appeared, but what we can say is that the virus was present before the reported cases, "explains the expert.