Why should you not use ivermectin to treat or prevent COVID-19
We've had to live with him for what sometimes seems like an eternity.
Given the number of deaths that have occurred as a result of the disease, it may not be surprising that some consumers are seeking unconventional, unapproved or FDA-approved treatments.
While this is understandable, be careful.
The FDA's job is to carefully evaluate the scientific data of a drug to ensure it is safe and effective for a given use, and then decide whether or not it approves it.
The use of any treatment for COVID-19 that is not approved or approved by the FDA, unless it is part of a clinical trial, can be very dangerous and cause serious harm.
There appears to be a growing interest in a drug called ivermectin to treat humans against COVID-19.
ivermectin is often used in the US.
U.
to treat or prevent parasites in animals.
The FDA has received multiple reports from patients who have requested medical assistance and have been hospitalized after self-medicating with ivermectin intended for horses.
This is what you should know about ivermectin
The FDA has not approved the use of ivermectin to treat or prevent COVID-19 in humans.
The ivermectin tablets are approved in very specific doses for some parasitic worms, and there are topical formulations (on the skin) for lice and skin conditions such as rosacea.
ivermectin is not an antiviral (a drug to treat viruses).
Taking large doses of this medicine is dangerous and can cause serious harm.
If you have a prescription for ivermectin for FDA-approved use, get it from a legitimate source and take it exactly as prescribed.
Never use in humans medicines intended for animals.
Preparations of ivermectin for animals are very different from those approved for humans.
What is ivermectin and how is it used?
ivermectin tablets are approved by the FDA to treat people with strongyloidosis and intestinal onchocercosis, two conditions caused by parasitic worms.
In addition, some topical forms (on the skin) of ivermectin are approved to treat external parasites such as lice and for skin conditions such as rosacea.
Some formulations of ivermectin are used in animals to prevent heart worm disease and certain internal and external parasites.
It is important to note that these products are different from those used for people, and that they are safe when used as prescribed, only in animals.
When can it be dangerous to use ivermectin?
The FDA has not reviewed data supporting the use of ivermectin in patients with COVID-19 to treat or prevent COVID-19.
Initial research is underway, but the FDA has not approved the drug for this use.
Taking a drug for unapproved use can be very dangerous.
This is also true for ivermectin.
There is much incorrect information about this, and you may have heard that large doses of ivermectin can be taken.
This is false.
Even ivermectin levels for approved uses can interact with other drugs, such as anticoagulants.
It can also cause nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, hypotension (low blood pressure), allergic reactions (itching and urticaria), dizziness, ataxia (balance problems), convulsions, coma, and even death.
ivermectin products for animals are different from ivermectin products for people On the one hand, medicines for animals are often very concentrated because they are used for large animals like horses and cows, which can weigh one ton or more, much more than us.
These high doses can be very toxic to humans.
In addition, the FDA reviews drugs based not only on the safety and efficacy of active ingredients, but also on inactive ingredients.
Many of the inactive ingredients found in animal products are not evaluated for human use.
Or they are included in a much larger amount than those used in people.
In some cases, we do not know how these inactive ingredients will affect the absorption of ivermectin in the human body.
In the meantime, effective ways to reduce the spread of COVID-19 remain wearing a mask, staying at least 6 feet away from other people who do not live with you, washing hands frequently and avoiding crowded places..