Sweden's Virus Experiment: No Containment and Open Schools
Stockholm has one of the most active startup scenes in the world.
Pixabay
Sweden has become a special case in fighting coronavirus.
While the major European countries and others in the world, such as the United States, apply restrictive measures such as containment, the Scandinavian country's response to the pandemic is completely different, as the Financial Times notes.
Swedish citizens suffer very light restrictions compared to those in France, Spain, Germany, Italy, or Portugal, for example.
Schools for children up to the age of 16 are still open, many workers still go to their offices and trains and buses are full this week in Stockholm.
To date, the main measures of the Swedish government have been to ban events of more than 500 people, close universities and advise employees to stay home... if possible.
In addition, the authorities ordered restaurants and cafes to serve customers on tables, not bars.
Johan Carlson, the highest-ranking official in the Swedish public health system, defended the government's decision, saying that the country "cannot implement draconian measures that have a limited impact on the epidemic and knock out the functions of society."
Indeed, he pointed out that the number of deaths per year in the country, which is around 90,000, could "increase significantly" if the sanctity system collapsed.
To date, there have been more than 2,000 coronavirus infections in Sweden, with 33 deaths, a very low figure compared to more than 6,000 deaths in Italy and more than 4,000 in Spain.
While state epidemiologist Anders Tegnell notes that the "future is manageable" and supports keeping schools open to ensure the care of health workers' children, several health experts in the country criticize the proposal.
For Joacim Rocklov, an epidemiologist at Umea University, the Swedish authorities have taken enormous risks to public health.
I don't see why Sweden will be different from other countries.
This is a huge experiment.
We have no idea whether it will go well or take us in the wrong direction, "he told the Financial Times.
Sweden ruled out that it was following a "group immunity" strategy, which consisted of a large group of the population contracting the virus in order to make society immune.
Instead, it seeks to slow down the spread of infections and ensure that your health system does not collapse.