There is no evidence that street dogs were the source of the coronavirus, despite a recent study suggesting that the coronavirus originated in dogs.
The true origin of COVID-19 is not yet known with certainty, although many studies indicate that human transmission was by an animal.
In the last few hours some media have echoed a study linking the origin of the virus to street dogs, which could be COVID-19 transmitters.
However, it is only a hypothesis and does not have enough basis to make it true.
One of the major debates surrounding coronavirus has to do with its origin.
It has not yet been possible to know which animal was the origin of COVID-19 and it was transmitted for the first time to a human.
It has been speculated on pangolins, bats and especially animals from the Wuhan market.
None of the theories have ended up convincing scientists.
Discovering the origin of coronavirus is important to better understand the disease and find possible treatments and cures, as well as to be able to slow its spread.
So it 's not surprising that dozens of hypotheses emerge every week.
A recent study, published by Professor Xuxhua Xia of the University of Ottawa (Canada), points out that street dogs are the possible origin of coronavirus.
The explanation offered by this document is as follows: Wuhan's street dogs ate bats that were already carriers of COVID-19, and from there it passed to humans.
Read more: When will bars and restaurants open in Spain: the hostel will be late to get out of quarantine
But the study is not rigorous enough, leaving this claim in a mere hypothesis.
The research has been based on computer genome analysis of several types of coronavirus, and has focused on a small part of that genome, namely the CpG.
According to the study, COVID-19 has fewer CpG than other coronaviruses, and therefore can hide better from the immune system and replicate the disease without the organism receiving a response.
At this point, researchers examined data from several mammals, including dogs.
They concluded that only canine coronavirus genomes are compatible with the lower CpG values found in COVID-19.
Thus, dogs would become possible carriers.
Why the investigation is not well founded
However, the study has related these variables in a speculative way, without any real correlation to support their claims, and without having studied many other mammals that may have the same values, as it explains.
Furthermore, the data that has been handled is not updated, and the work is not just a simulation through a computer.
The investigation is similar to others that pointed to snakes as the origin of COVID-19, and that eventually proved wrong.
The article itself dismisses the fact that the virus is transmitted by eating an animal, so the hypothesis that these dogs were sold on the Wuhan market also remains unimportant.
Read more: This would be the final date of confinement in Spain if the same quarantine was followed as in China
Even if this hypothesis is true, there are many doubts about it.
How is the virus transmitted from a street dog to a human being?
The only possibility, according to the same study, is to contact the feces of the animal and then touch the membranes of your own mouth or nose.
Another option is to suffer the bite of a dog just after it has licked its rectal area.
That is, the possible explanations do not go beyond speculation.