The "tests" of the Chinese virologist who claims that Covid-19 was created in a laboratory have no scientific evidence
Volumen 90
Keyboard Attack
Play / Pause Spacer
Increase the Volume
Decrease Volume
Forward
Revert
Enable / Hide Subtitles
Full Screen / Exit the Full Screen
Mute / Activate Sonid
Move% 0-9
Next Video
The excitement of Bryan Gil on meeting his call-up to the Spanish national team
Live
05: 00
05: 00
05: 00
Other Videos
The excitement of Bryan Gil on meeting his call-up to the Spanish national team
An accident between two trucks causes huge retention on AP-7 in Santa Perpetua de Mogoda
Police locate a five-month-old baby at an illegal party in Madrid
Ayuso says that Spain 'owes him one': "We have removed Pablo Iglesias from the Moncloa"
Spain currently maintains the AstraZeneca vaccine only for those under 55
Sara Carbonero and Iker Casillas, do you confirm the separation of the couple?
Megan Fox discovers the powerful Viking Wars in 'Hidden Legends'
He almost died after a failed grenade launch.
Close
The Chinese virologist who claimed she had evidence that Covid-19 was manufactured in a laboratory in her country uploaded a 26-page document to the internet this week to prove her claims.
Li-Meng Yan's report has been analyzed by researchers around the world who have concluded that it has no scientific evidence.
Experts claim that the virologist has mixed actual research with biased data in her paper, even citing Spanish CSIC studies that belie her own claims.
Li-Meng Yang's conclusions have been funded by Steve Bannon, the ideologist behind Donald Trump's campaign.
This report would voice America's four claims against China and exonerate the US president from responsibility for managing the pandemic.
This thesis is also a breath of encouragement to the pandemic deniers who have proliferated around the world.
Weeks ago, Li-Meng Yang fled China and took refuge in the United States.
He has repeatedly maintained that the reason for his flight was to escape pressure from the Chinese government for having spoken without a doubt about the possible origin of the coronavirus.
The Director General of the World Health Organization (WHO), Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, reported again this Saturday that coronavirus has a natural origin.
Asked about an interview in which someone claimed the virus came from a laboratory, that is, it was artificially created, Ghebreyesus confirmed that the coronavirus that causes Covid-19 "has occurred naturally."
"All the publications that we have seen point to something that has been generated naturally," the doctor said, in some way also pushing the assumptions that keep the Chinese virologist fleeing her country.