They're testing a therapy in China that shortens the duration of coronavirus
Doctors and coronavirus patients in a Wuhan hospital in a file image.
EPH
A team of Chinese scientists have found that the combination of three antiviral drugs is "promising" for the treatment of Covid-19 in patients with mild or moderate disease.
Specifically, researchers have found that early treatment with triple interferon beta-1b, lopinavir-ritonavir, and ribavirin is safe and shortens the duration of viral excretion compared to lopinavir-ritonavir alone: an average of seven days versus twelve days.
These are the results of a Phase II randomized clinical trial and the authors themselves state that broader Phase III studies with patients in a critical situation are needed to confirm whether this triple antiviral therapy can provide a clinically significant benefit.
And it 's that, in the most severe patients, the virus has had more time to replicate.
The results are published in The Lancet and are led by researchers from the University of Hong Kong.
The study involved 127 patients from six public hospitals in that city and one part was treated in a two-week cycle with all three drugs.
Covid-19 patients show the peak of their viral load around the time the symptoms appear: "Our trial shows that early treatment of Covid-19 from mild to moderate with a combination of three antiviral drugs can rapidly suppress the amount of virus in the patient."
But, as researcher Kwok-Yung Yuen points out, it can alleviate symptoms and reduce risk to health workers by decreasing the duration and amount of virus excretion - when the virus is detectable and potentially contagious.
In addition, this three-drug therapy "seems safe and well tolerated by patients."
Previous research had already determined that a combination of oral lopinavir-ritonavir (commonly used to treat HIV) and ribavirin (an oral drug against hepatitis C virus) significantly reduced respiratory failure and death in patients hospitalized for severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) during the 2003 outbreak.
Interferon beta-1b, which was developed to treat multiple sclerosis, has also been shown to reduce viral load and improve lung problems in animal studies of coronavirus infection of Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS).