Middle castrate suggests coronavirus was created in US laboratories
As if we didn't have enough with the tragedy of the coronavirus already spreading across several countries, a Cuban official medium suggested that the epidemic may have been created in US laboratories.
In a note from
Workers
signed by Pablo Montesinos, this journalist claims that "suspicions are growing" about the origin of the virus in American laboratories.
It focuses on statements made by US Secretary of Commerce Wilbur Ross, who last week said that coronavirus will help bring jobs to the United States and Mexico.
In addition, the official spokesman gave a nod to China's capacity to address this health crisis.
"For their part, the great information sinks do not stop for a second to create panic across the planet Earth, giving figures of deaths and coronavirus infections," not to mention Beijing's intense efforts to stop this disease. "
According to Montesinos, this is part of what he calls a "campaign of xenophobia," supposedly conducted in the United States.
The few comments he has on the note give the author reason.
As of last Thursday, there were 7,818 cases worldwide, 7,736 of which were confirmed in China, with a further 12,167 suspected cases.
The number of severely ill patients in Asia reached 1370.
The virus has also spread to 18 countries, the most recently reported in Finland, India and the Philippines, for a total of 92 confirmed international cases.
Of these, person-to-person transmission has been confirmed in Japan, the United States, Germany and Vietnam.
This afternoon, Cuban health authorities claimed that several people from China have been isolated in the country's hospitals and the Pedro Kouri Institute of Tropical Medicine for presenting some of the symptoms associated with coronavirus, which is on alert to the world's medical services.
"We have already detected some people who have come from China or have been in China in the last 14 days, who have been admitted to the IPK, or another hospital in our country because they have presented symptoms of those that characterize this disease," Dr. Francisco Durán, National Director of Epidemiology, Ministry of Public Health, told the news media.