Using N95 covers and masks doesn't make sense if you're not infected with coronavirus, according to science
COVID-19 has arrived in Mexico, so it is time to take preventive measures, but also to be informed so as not to fall into the trap.
That could cause panic and make things worse.
Following this line it is important to talk about N95 masks and covers.
Before going into details of the use of N95 masks and covers as possible measures to reduce COVID-19 contagion, we will explain what they are and how they work.
Respiratory protection devices
The N95 masks are the most widely used personal protective equipment (PPE) in health care to prevent the spread of infectious diseases.
Their nomenclature determines that they filter up to 95% of the elements in the air, but that they are not resistant to oil and other liquids, and can be of two types, with or without filter masks.
The importance of N95 masks lies in that they create an airtight seal against the skin that prevents the passage of particles into the air, including pathogens.
Its effectiveness has been proven against particles up to 0.3 µm in diameter, and although coronavirus particles have been found to measure between 0.05 and 0.2 µm, they are generally transmitted by respiratory droplets over 5 µm and by direct contact with infected secretions.
So in this scenario, the N95 masks do work as a preventive barrier.
N95 masks, also called respirators, may be of different shapes and markings, but in any case they must have the approval of the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) as a guarantee that they have been tested for effectiveness.
On the other hand are the covers, whose name in the field of health is that of surgical masks.
These are not considered respiratory protection devices, as they do not filter air particles or create an airtight seal of protection, although they do protect against larger particles, fluid spills, splashes and aerosols.
Its use is rather to prevent and reduce exposure to saliva and secretions that may contain pathogens.
In short, the covers do not protect against coronavirus infection, as do the N95 masks.
However, its preventive use is equally important.
Is it advisable to use N95 masks and covers?
With the definition of both types of masks clear, is it advisable to use them to avoid infection of COVID-19?
Yes and no.
Currently, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) do not recommend the use of any kind of mask.
They mention that the use of these elements should only be in very particular cases:
If a person has respiratory symptoms, such as coughing and sneezing, they should use a blanket.
Even without symptoms, if recommended by a health specialist, a blanket can be used
Any health worker in direct contact with COVID-19 patients should be protected with N95 masks, in addition to:
google
In Wuhan alone, China has ordered the use of coveralls in public, but only because it is the place of origin of the virus, as due to its incubation time of approximately two weeks, an infected person can infect others before presenting symptoms.
In general, no person without symptoms should wear any kind of mask.
The general recommendations are already known and we have shared: wash your hands frequently with water and soap, cover your mouth and nose when sneezing and cough with a handkerchief or in its defect with the inner part of your elbow, do not touch your eyes with dirty hands, among others.
In addition, in the case of use of any type of mask, your disposal must be made in a red bag with the symbol of biological risk and following all relevant measures.
A few additional notes.
Nevertheless, there will probably be people who want to wear some kind of mask "just in case," but it actually makes no significant difference unless you are in direct contact with an infected person.
Moreover, it is also not advisable to follow this example because the high demand for masks caused by collective panic can affect those who really need them.
Finally, if the use of a mask becomes necessary, men with facial hair should remember to have the right cut.
Coronavirus in Mexico: all information
Mexico was the first to activate measures against coronavirus, but a month after the global alert, it has no contingency plan.
Chinese packets will not infect you with coronavirus, nor baby urine is a cure: science breaks down myths about the virus
ABC portal