Immunity against COVID-19 would be possible thanks to T cells
Exposure to cold viruses can actually lead to mild cases of COVID-19, which could be a good signal for the development of a vaccine.
BBC News
T cells have become a source of hope for finding immunity to COVID-19 and, although research suggests that the immunity of infected people decreases in a few months, the presence of these cells and their positive effect on the virus makes it thought that they might be used in the development of an effective vaccine.
A group of researchers led by Adrian Hayday, a professor of immunology at King's College London and group leader at the Francis Crick Institute, study the immune response of T cells in patients infected with COVID-19.
What are T cells?
T cells are a type of immune cell whose primary purpose is to identify and kill invading pathogens or infected cells, using proteins on their surface, which in turn can adhere to proteins on the surface of these impostors.
Each T cell is highly specific, as there are trillions of possible variations of these surface proteins, and each can recognize a different target, as well as have the ability to generate an immunogenic memory spice that remains for years.
Several studies have shown that people infected with COVID-19 have T cells that can fight, though not to a large extent, the virus.
What 's surprising here is that scientists have also recently discovered that some people can be antibodies negative to COVID-19 and T-cell positive to identify the virus.
This has led to suspicions that certain levels of immunity to the disease may be twice as common as previously thought.
This suggests that T cells may be a hidden source of immunity for COVID-19.
What is known about the relationship between T cells and COVID-19
"When I look at patients with COVID-19 - but it makes me happy to say that also when I look at individuals who were infected but did not need hospitalization - it becomes absolutely clear that there are responses from T cells," says Adrian Hayday.
And almost certainly this is very good news for those who are interested in vaccines, because clearly we are capable of producing antibodies and producing T cells that can see the virus.
All this is good "continues.
It is still very early to know the level of protection of the immune response by T cells, but a member of the research group told the BBC media that the result was "extremely promising."
However, there is a significant number of patients with a more severe COVID-19 disease in which T cells do not respond adequately.
One theory is that these T cells are diverted to where they are most needed, such as the lungs.
But Adrian Hayday's team suspects that what happens is that many of them start dying.
"Autopsies of patients with COVID-19 are beginning to reveal what is called necrosis, which is a kind of decomposition," he explains.
This is particularly evident in areas of the spleen and lymph nodes where T cells normally live.
The disconcerting thing is that spleen necrosis is a disease mark of T cells, where the immune cells themselves are attacked.
The decrease in the level of T cells may also be the reason why elderly people are much more severely affected by covid-19.
Will T cells lead to a vaccine?
According to several studies, exposure to cold viruses can actually lead to more mild cases of COVID-19, which could be a good sign for the development of a vaccine as it is evidence that surviving T cells offer significant protection, even years after they were formed.
But even if this does not happen, T-cell participation could still be beneficial.
Hayday explains that how vaccines are designed usually depends on the type of immune response scientists hope to elicit.
Some can cause the production of antibodies, which are freely circulating proteins that can bind to invading pathogens, either neutralizing them or marking them for another part of the immune system to take care of them.
Others aim to involve T cells, or perhaps provoke a response from other parts of the immune system.
"There's really a huge spectrum of vaccine designs," Hayday explains.
The researcher is particularly encouraged by the fact that the virus is evidently highly visible to the immune system, even in those severely affected.
"So if we can avoid what this is doing to the T cells of patients with whom we have been privileged to work, then we will have made much progress in controlling the disease," the researcher says.
Everything seems to indicate that in the future work with T cells may bear fruit and lead to complete immunity to the virus, or at least a less severe presentation of the disease in those patients who are considered chronic.