Hydrochloroquine reduces mortality rate in coronavirus patients, says new study
Researchers at Henry Ford Hospital in Detroit have shown a significant reduction in mortality rates in patients infected with COVID-19 coronavirus who were given hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) compared to those who did not receive this drug, indicating that despite the pharmaceutical campaign to get cheap drugs like this out of the way, there are independent studies.
The patients were hospitalized between 10 March and 2 May.
"The results of this study show that in a strictly protocol-controlled intrahospital environment, treatment with hydroxychloroquine alone and hydroxychloroquine [and] azithromycin has been associated with a significant reduction in mortality among patients hospitalized with COVID-19," the researchers wrote in The study published on July 1 in the
The number of patients from the COVID-19 hospital of the experiment was among the largest brought together in a single institution, according to the HCQ study.
More than 2,500 patients with COVID-19 with an average age of 64 were included in the study.
The mortality rate for patients treated with HCQ alone was 13.5 percent; those treated with HCQ and azithromycin had a mortality rate of 20.1 percent; and those not treated with any of the drugs had a mortality rate of 26.4 percent, the study found.
The main cause of death was respiratory failure (88%), followed by cardiopulmonary and multiorganic failure (8%) and cardiac failure (4%).
These findings occur after Oxford University researchers did not find a beneficial effect on the treatment of patients with HCQ in a study of 1,542 patients with COVID-19 published on 5 June as part of the school virus study called the "Recuperation Trial," so they stopped enrolling participants in the HCQ trial.
After the study gained significant media coverage, the World Health Organization, the National Institutes of Health and the generic producer of HCQ Novartis also suspended their hydroxychloroquine trials, citing lack of benefits for patients and problems with patient registration.
Sanofi, a French pharmaceutical company that produces the malaria drug, also stopped its clinical trial of HCQ.
Movements by these major organizations and companies to stop their HCQ trials have led many to believe that the drug was no longer an option for effective treatment with COVID-19, but doctors and patients recovered from COVID-19 continue to promote the effectiveness of the drug despite studies that have found no benefits or an increase in mortality rates.
https: / / t.co / 5rjSRModjC? amp = 1
Henry Ford researchers attribute the difference between the effectiveness of HCQ in their study compared to the ineffectiveness of the drug in other studies at the time and the procedure.
The benefits of hydroxychloroquine in our cohort compared to previous studies may be related to its early use in the course of the disease with standardized and safe doses, inclusion criteria, co-morbidities or larger cohort.
... Subsequent therapy in patients who have already experienced a hyperimmune response or critical illness is less likely to be beneficial, "they wrote.
HCQ is an antiparasitic drug initially used against malaria and then against lupus and rheumatoid arthritis, which are diseases in which there is an excessive body anti-immunological reaction.
It appears that HCQ, being immunosuppressive, would modulate this excess reaction.
In COVID-19 coronavirus, HCQ prevents the virus from entering the cell and its optimal use is combined with ivermectin, which prevents the virus from reimplanting into the cell, until it is completely eliminated in the body.
The daily costs of producing HCQ and azithromycin are also significantly lower than those of remdesivir, a drug that does not show much difference in benefits compared to other treatments and will be sold in the United States to US3,120, although experts point out,,.,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
Related articles
Remdesivir shuts down the coronavirus business and previously funded a scientist who spoke out against hydrochloric acid.
Dr. Antonio Camargo: I should have died with coronavirus, but I saved myself with ivermectin.
The dose of Minsa is insufficient.
They retract blame for increased risk of death on hydroxychloroquine for coronavirus treatment
Filtering: The Lancet and NEJM editors already know that Big Pharma is a "criminal" cartel that drives science manipulated for profit
Coronavirus and ivermectin: Charlatan physicians should be documented when talking about drugs.
Mobs are trafficking in the product that can save lives.
Corticoids such as dexamethasone are useful in some coronavirus cases.