Trump accused Pfizer and the FDA of hiding the vaccine to hurt him in the election
Internacionais
The president targeted his government's office that regulates drugs, although the vaccine has not yet been approved.
19: 00 | Tuesday 10 of November 2020 | La Rioja, Argentina | Fenix Multiplatform
While attempting a judicial miracle to keep him in the US presidency, Donald Trump suggested that the pharmaceutical company Pfizer and his drug-regulating government conspired to announce the vaccine after the election, ostensibly to harm him.
The US President's message against the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) was surprising because the FDA did not approve the vaccine and the announcement was made on behalf of Pfizer and the German firm BionTech.
The FDA and the Democrats didn't want a TRIUNFO in vaccines before the election, so it came out five days later, as I said all the time!
, "Trump said in a series of tweets
If Joe Biden were president, they would not have the vaccine for another four years, nor would the FDA approve it so quickly.
The bureaucracy would have destroyed millions of lives!
, "said the outgoing president, who still does not admit his defeat in the polls
The FDA, the regulatory body, is part of the Department of Health and is led by Commissioner Stephen Hahn, whom Trump appointed.
"As I have said for a long time," I added, "Pfizer and the others (pharmaceutical companies) were only going to announce the vaccine after the election, because they didn't have the courage to do it before.
Likewise, the FDA should have announced it earlier, not for political purposes, but to save lives!
he said.
Trump seemed to attribute the success of Pfizer, which announced on Monday that its vaccine against covid-19 is 90% more effective than required by US regulators, which augurs well for a rapid emergency authorization for its public release, something that could happen before the end of this year.
Although Pfizer and the Trump administration signed a contract for the future purchase of 100 million doses of vaccine for $1.950 million, the pharmaceutical company did not receive public funding to develop it, as did others like Moderna and AstraZeneca.