Polemic for ivermectin against COVID-19: SEDESA defends its use
The Mexico City Health Secretariat stated that ivermectin is safe.
After health specialists in Mexico asked to avoid the use of ivermectin as a treatment against COVID-19, the Mexico City Secretariat of Health (SEDESA) retorted, stating that its use is safe and effective.
The Coordinating Commission of National Institutes of Health and Hospitals of High Speciality (CINSHAE) reported this Friday that in the absence of scientific evidence it was preferable to suspend its application as a treatment for the disease caused by the SARS-CoV-2 virus at any of its stages. "
However, Oliva López Arellano, CDMX Health Secretary, said hours later that it will continue to be used as treatment in the capital.
SEDESA's response to the use of ivermectin
Lopez Arellano pointed out that although there is a great controversy about the use of ivermectin, he clarified that it does not produce side effects that could put the population at risk.
ivermectin is an antiparasitic that has been used extensively for other health problems, especially infectious diseases, it is an antiparasitic of enormous safety.
Olivia Lopez, Mexico City Health Secretary
The official assured that in the country's capital it will continue to be used as treatment as long as it is prescribed by a doctor.
"There is more and more evidence of the use that ivermectin has an effect on viral load reduction and then we are aligned with this perspective," he reiterated.
The CDMX Health Secretary also said that this drug is being used to combat COVID-19, as well as many other resources.
What did the Coordinating Commission of National Institutes of Health and High-Speciality Hospitals (CCINSHAE) say?
The Multidisciplinary Panel of Experts (PME) of the Coordinating Commission of National Institutes of Health and Hospitals of Excellence (CCINSHAE) found that there is insufficient scientific evidence to recommend the use of ivermectin alone, azithromycin alone, and ivermectin combined with azithromycin as a treatment for COVID-19 in any of its stages.
It is concluded that there is no basis for these drugs to be useful in preventing SARS-CoV-2 infection.
The panel concluded that clinical trials with appropriate design are needed to determine the actual efficacy and safety of the drug and therefore recommends that ivermectin be used exclusively under research protocols.
We recommend: