They find that this mineral protects against coronavirus
Is it possible to protect against Covid-19?
Like any other virus, we can strengthen our immune system.
All experts agree that coronavirus will not be stopped until there is a vaccine, seeing the imprudence people make and the numerous rebirths everywhere.
But there are other ways to combat it.
For example, by strengthening our immune system.
And scientists have discovered that there is a mineral, present in some foods, that is especially effective for this.
Covid-19 is a virus, and as such, there are no effective drugs to stop the infection.
When we get infected, it must be our immune system that defeats it.
According to our TICbeat account, a team of researchers at Sechenov University in Moscow, in collaboration with experts from Germany, Greece, Norway, and the United States, has carried out a study published in the International Journal of Molecular Medicine, which shows that zinc helps to prevent respiratory virus infection, and to reduce inflammation, which makes this infection less serious.
Yuka, is an app that analyzes the quality of food and cosmetics.
Its popularity is so high that it is beginning to put in check manufacturers and establishments such as Mercadona and Carrefour.
Read the news
Zinc is a mineral that acts as a catalyst in the functioning of more than 300 enzymes, is essential in metabolic processes and ensures the functioning of the reproductive, cardiovascular and nervous systems.
It also favors the production of white blood cells, which are the ones that generate the antibodies of our immune system, fighting viruses and infections.
The study concluded that zinc strengthens the immune system, and thus protects against Covid-19.
Even after being infected, it has been shown to reduce inflammation when you contract pneumonia, thus reducing damage to lung tissue.
The study also found specific evidence for coronaviruses.
Zinc blocks the enzyme responsible for replicating the coronavirus that caused the SARS outbreak in 2002.
However, he acknowledges that there is still insufficient data to conclude that it is effective against Covid-19, and recalls that consuming excess zinc is also bad for health.
But since this mineral is present in many foods, it is never wrong to include it in our diet.
Zinc-rich foods include beef, oysters, chickpeas, beans, prawns, pumpkin seeds, spinach, chicken, mushrooms or anagards.