Hydrochloroquine is safe for the heart in Covid-19 patients
Short-term hydroxychloroquine treatment is not associated with lethal heart rates in patients with Covid-19 whose risk is assessed prior to receiving the drug, according to a research published in the
European Parliament
, a journal of the European Cardiology Society (ESC),
"This has been the largest study to evaluate the risk of dangerous heart rhythms (arrhythmias) in patients with Covid-19 treated with hydroxychloroquine - the author of the study, Alessio Gasperetti, of the Monzino Cardiology Center in Italy, and the Zurich University Hospital in Switzerland, notes.
In our cohort, there was a low rate of arrhythmias and none was associated with hydroxychloroquine. "
The study began when there was very little experience in the use of hydroxychloroquine to treat patients with Covid-19.
Current evidence suggests that it is ineffective in patients with advanced disease, but there is debate about its effectiveness in the early stage.
This study was not designed to test the effectiveness of hydroxychloroquine in Covid-19 but to examine cardiac safety.
- DIRECTTO | Access here to the evolution of coronavirus Covid-19 -
Hydrochloroquine is known to cause an electrical change in the heart in some patients.
It is called QT prolongation due to the electrocardiogram (ECG) pattern.
This electrical pattern is related to an increased risk of fatal heart rhythms.
This has been the largest study now to assess the risk of dangerous heart rhythms.
Hydroxychloroquine has been used for decades to treat lupus and rheumatoid arthritis and to prevent malaria.
But the Covid-19 pandemic is the first time the drug has been used in a large number of patients with acute diseases with multiple health problems and possibly receiving other drugs that prolong the QT interval.
The scale of the pandemic increases the likelihood of hereditary heart problems that predispose patients to arrhythmias.
In addition, changes in blood electrolytes can occur, which can trigger arrhythmias, in those who need treatment in an intensive care unit (ICU).
This study was conducted to evaluate changes in ECG and arrhythmias in patients with Covid-19 treated with hydroxychloroquine in different clinical settings.
Patients took hydroxychloroquine twice a day
A total of 649 patients with Covid-19 were enrolled from seven institutions between March 10 and April 10, 2020.
The average age was 62 years and 46 percent were men.
A risk calculator was used to evaluate the likelihood of QT prolongation and decide the treatment environment.
All patients were given an ECG before starting treatment and at least one follow-up measurement.
At all centers, patients took 200 mg of hydroxychloroquine twice a day (i.e. a total of 400 mg per day).
More than half of the patients (58.6%) took a loading dose on the first day, meaning they received 400 mg twice that day (i.e. a total of 800 mg).
The study shows that hydroxychloroquine is safe for short-term treatment of Covid-19.
Hydrochloroquine was administered shortly after the onset of symptoms in three different care settings: 126 (19.4%) patients were treated at home, 495 (76.3%) were hospitalized in a medical room, and 28 (4.3%) patients were treated at ICU.
According to real world practice, 30% of patients received two QT prolonging drugs and 13.6% received three (including hydroxychloroquine).
A significant prolongation of the QT interval was observed in the general cohort, but the magnitude of the increase was modest and similar in all care............
The most important determinants of QT prolongation during hydroxychloroquine treatment were entry fever and duration of initial QT.
During a median follow-up of 16 days, there were no lethal arrhythmias.
A total of seven patients (1.1 percent) had severe ventricular arrhythmia, but none were considered to be related to QT prolongation or hydroxychloroquine treatment.
Gasperetti notes that "treatment with hydroxychloroquine was associated with QT prolongation, as expected, but the change was small.
There was no connection between the drug and the appearance of arrhythmias. "
The study shows that administration of hydroxychloroquine, alone or in combination with other potentially QT prolonging drugs, is safe for short-term treatment of patients with Covid-19 at home or in the hospital - continue - provided they undergo a risk assessment and ECG control by a physician.
Although it may contain claims, data or notes from health institutions or professionals, the information contained in Medical Writing is edited and produced by journalists.
We recommend to the reader that any questions related to health be consulted with a health professional.