Video scrolling Fauci's comments on COVID-19 vaccine
A highly-viewed video on Facebook distorts a CNN interview with Dr. Anthony Fauci to mistakenly suggest that a COVID-19 vaccine authorized in the United States "does not protect him against cowardice."
The vaccine does protect against COVID-19, which is the disease caused by coronavirus.
Fauci was simply warning that the vaccine may not prevent everyone from contracting the virus.
Full History
A popular video that adds voice-over to images of a televised interview with the director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases Dr. Anthony Fauci incorrectly questions the efficacy of one of the two COVID-19 vaccines authorized for use in the United States.
"So the vaccine doesn't protect you against the covid??"?
is the title of the video posted on Facebook.
Indeed, as Fauci explains in the interview, the vaccine does protect against COVID-19, which is the disease caused by the new coronavirus.
However, it may not protect against infection with SARS-CoV-2, which sometimes does not cause the disease in certain people.
The video, which has accumulated over 468,000 visits and has been shared over 14,000 times, was published by TAHO, a group that claims to be a non-governmental organization "to encourage young people to participate in agricultural activities."
The group's Facebook photo includes an image of a map of Africa, and the group is run by people in Ghana and the United Kingdom.
Many of his publications, including Fauci's video, end with the phrase "African Youth Reflects."
The video lasts about two minutes and contains a segment of the interview that Chris Cuomo of CNN made with Fauci on December 10.
The interview followed news of the decision of an independent advisory committee of the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to recommend approval of the Pfizer / BioNTech vaccine, arguing that the benefits outweigh the risks; virtually ensuring that the agency would give the vaccine the green light.
The next day, the FDA, as expected, granted the vaccine an emergency use authorization, the first for any vaccine against COVID-19 in the United States.
Another vaccine, from the modern biotechnology company, followed the same process a week later.
This vaccine also prevents the disease, but it is not yet known whether it prevents infection.
The clip begins with Cuomo asking Fauci why it will still be necessary for people to wear masks, even after receiving the vaccine.
Fauci explains that it has to be because although the vaccine does an excellent job protecting people from the disease, there is a chance that it will not prevent infection; and initially, there will still be a lot of viruses circulating in the population.
"You can be prevented from contracting the clinical disease, but you can still contract the infection and have the virus in your nasopharyngeal," he said.
We are not sure at this time that the vaccine will protect you from infection.
Here a voice interrupts to repeat Fauci's last phrase in suggestive tone, before letting it continue.
"If we know for sure that it is very, very good, 94%, 95% in protecting it against a clinically recognizable disease," says Fauci.
At this point the voice interrupts again: "A clinically recognizable disease, but not COVID?"
The question suggests that there is something suspicious about what Fauci said, but there is no.
It 's just making the distinction between infection and disease.
Specifically, the Pfizer / BioNTech vaccine was tested in a Phase 3 randomized clinical trial in which people were told that they had COVID-19 if they developed at least one symptom of the disease (such as fever, cough, or respiratory difficulty) and had a positive test result for SARS-CoV-2 within four days.
Using this rather open definition, the vaccine had a 95% effectiveness in preventing COVID-19 disease in adults.
Moderna's vaccine, for which general results were already known at the time of the CNN interview, had a similar effectiveness (94.1%) defining COVID-19 cases as those with at least two systemic symptoms, such as fever, chills or headache; and a respiratory symptom, in addition to a positive test for SARS-CoV-2.
Clinical trials, however, do not immediately evaluate how good vaccines are to prevent infection.
This is particularly relevant with COVID-19, because although many people develop at least one symptom, a portion of the population has no symptoms.
Thus, the two-dose vaccine is likely to keep people healthy (the main target of vaccines) but that vaccinated people can still become infected and transmit the virus unwittingly.
So Fauci's advice, at least for now, is to continue wearing masks and respecting public health precautions, which are also advised by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).
As we have written before, there is a good chance that authorised vaccines against COVID-19 will help to limit transmission to some degree, as is already common with vaccines that cannot protect against infection but against disease.
But the question remains open in the case of COVID-19 vaccines.
The video is again fooled when the voice-off repeats what Fauci said, when he says the vaccine protects people from cases of "severe illness" and then asks: "Well, then, how does he call COVID, if that's not serious?"
The question misinterprets COVID-19 and the different ways in which it affects each person.
As we have explained, SARS-CoV-2 infection does not always produce symptoms in people.
For most individuals, symptoms are relatively moderate.
But in some patients, particularly those who are older or who have certain medical conditions, COVID-19 may be lethal; and for others, symptoms may remain.
Fauci refers to the vaccine's ability to prevent a severe case of COVID-19.
In both Pfizer / BioNTech and Moderna clinical trials, cases of severe illness were defined by the confirmed presence of COVID-19 and at least one sign of severe illness, such as blood oxygen levels below 93%, respiratory failure or admission to the intensive care unit.
In the Moderna clinical trial, all 30 cases of severe COVID-19 at the time of FDA evaluation occurred in the placebo group.
Another severe case was later identified in the vaccine group.
Few volunteers from the Pfizer / BioNTech trial developed serious cases, making it more difficult to reach definitive conclusions, but as the FDA explained in its submission, "the division of cases does suggest protection in severe cases of COVID-19."
Translated by Catalina Jaramillo.
Editor's note: FactCheck.org does not accept advertisements.
We depend on individual grants and donations from people like you.
Please consider a donation.
You can donate using your credit card via
our page