Frank Cuesta's' conspiracy theory 'about coronavirus
Frank Cuesta.
Frank Cuesta continues to make headlines every time he gives an interview.
On this occasion, and asked about the coronavirus Covid-19, he has not hesitated to launch a theory on contagion and its spread, which according to the animalist would go back to August and not early this year as the official version says.
He has done so in an interview with Federico Jiménez Losantos, where Cuesta has addressed the "hysteria" of the current coronavirus epidemic in Spain and the rest of the world.
However, contrary to what has been published so far, the presenter claims to have witnessed its beginnings in Thailand a few months ago, in the middle of 2019.
His theory is based on pangolin, an animal that had been the focus of the first animal-human contagion but was discarded.
Still, Cuesta continues to point to this possibility and argues that "we know that an average of fifty to one hundred pangolins are discovered every week that they go to Vietnam or China."
The second week of August was over from pillar, and also from bat and shrew.
We haven't found a shipment, which is rare.
I'm talking to you about the month of August, "he assured before coming to the conclusion of what happened:" How can you take a hundred pangolins a week and leave the same areas and then stop doing it?
The conclusion for Cuesta is clear: "In August something was already going on there," but it was not made public until half a year later.
Jiménez Losantos has pointed to the conspiracy car and has claimed that "there was a doctor who did report him and put him in jail, and then took him out to die."
On pangolin, Cuesta explained that "they are used up to the scales to put them on wounds... and that they eat it almost raw, put it a few seconds in water and already.
It's a kind of
Sushi
He's the most punished mammal in the world, they've finished him...
The problem is not pangolin: it is that they ate it and did not say what was going on. "
To conclude, Cuesta considers that in Thailand, in fact almost everyone has already passed the coronavirus in August, September or October 2019, pointing out that the epidemic has actually been out of control for several months.
In August, through there, we have all passed the virus.
We've passed the cataract.
We all took it at home.
And now, you start walking back and thinking about what has been going on since September, October and nobody then realized. "