Confessions do more harm than good
Containments are not based on science and have a small impact on infection control, but they create a huge economic and social cost, according to high-level academics.
In previous pandemics during the 20th century, societies remained open for as long as possible.
At the same time, people in risk groups were protected.
The consequences of that strategy did not create the deep recession and the negative public health effects that we see today.
The Asian flu pandemic (1957-58) and Hong Kong flu (1968-69) were as severe as the current coronavirus.
The current policy of confinement is based on coercion and not voluntary.
It is a historically new form of policy for dealing with a pandemic, with an authoritarian China as a model to follow......
Forcing people to remain locked up in their homes during a pandemic makes no.
In the past, it has been considered important for people to go out and breathe fresh air to deal with respiratory diseases, e.g..
the Spanish flu pandemic and tuberculosis (TB).
The decision on confinement has been made for dubious reasons.
The WHO stated from the outset that the high number of serious infections and deaths were reasons for confinement.
When researchers at Imperial College London presented a well-known, rather notorious forecast of the spread of infection and deaths by COVID-19, in mid-March 2020, politicians cooled down.
Today, we know that the forecasts were absurdly exaggerated.
Unfortunately, this study contributed to radical confinement.
Developing knowledge of the effect of medical and non-medical measures on morbidity, transmission, and mortality takes a long time.
Several analyses of confinement and its medical effects were hastily presented.
Many of these studies were positive for imposing restrictions.
Some of them were published in renowned scientific journals.
Unfortunately, the evaluation procedure appears to have been forced, which has contributed to the deficiencies in these studies.
A serious weakness is that data on the spread of infection have often been used instead of data on mortality or, above all, on excessive mortality.
Furthermore, there are no reliable statistics on the actual spread of COVID-19 infection.
Therefore, the results of these studies are not reliable.
Other studies show that the health effects of confinement are non-existent or weak.
However, these analyses have not received attention in the debate on containment policy.
Voluntary changes in human behavior inspired by advice and recommendations appear in this research as a better option than coercive measures.
If the only arguments left for containment are that all other countries are doing it, and that politicians must show leadership and power, then this strategy is a complete disaster.
A large number of infectious disease epidemiologists and public health scientists around the world have signed the Great Barrington Declaration, where they recommend an approach called
Targeted Protection
As immunity develops, the risk that everyone - including the vulnerable - has to get infected decreases.
We know that eventually all populations will reach herd immunity - that is, the point at which the rate of new infections remains stable - and that this can benefit from (but does not depend on) a vaccine.
The most humane way to approach it, by measuring the risks and benefits of achieving herd immunity, is to allow those at least at risk of death to live their lives normally to achieve immunity to the virus through natural infection, while better protecting those at greatest risk.
This is what we call focused protection.
Adopting measures to protect the vulnerable should be the central objective of public health action against COVID-19.
For example, nursing homes should employ staff with acquired immunity and test staff and visitors frequently.
Staff rotation should be limited.
Retired people living at home should have provisions and other essential items sent to their homes.
As soon as possible, they should meet with their relatives outdoors rather than indoors.
A comprehensive and detailed list of measures, including a particular approach for multigenerational households, can be developed, which fits perfectly within the scope and capabilities of public health professionals.
Those who are not vulnerable should immediately resume their normal life.
Simple hygiene measures, such as washing hands and staying home when sick, should be implemented by all to reduce the herd's immunity threshold.
Schools and universities should be open to face-to-face teaching.
Extracurricular activities, such as sports, should be resumed.
Young adults at low risk should work normally, rather than from home.
Restaurants and other businesses should open.
Arts, music, sports and other cultural activities should be resumed.
People at greater risk could participate, if they so wished, while society as a whole enjoys the protection afforded to the vulnerable by those who have developed herd immunity.
(gbdeclaration.org - The Declaration of Great Barrington)
The pandemic will end sooner or later, as history knows.
Containment has created enormous social and economic costs that have made us much poorer, reducing our future well-being and our standard of living.
Time will tell whether the confinement will stand out as a giant failure or not.
Funes:
Related article:
Coronavirus and Spanish Influenza