No, coffee doesn't cure COVID-19 or prevent coronavirus
Caption of the publication on the Facebook page with the chat about coffee.
VERIFICATION OF THE RO
A text titled "CNN's Latest.....................
Taking coffee "has reached Whatsapp's RTVE Check number several times.
Referring to SARS-CoV-2, he says that in China they have started serving coffee to those affected three times a day, so "the virus has been contained."
It's a hoax.
The text is headed by the company's logo "Black Gold."
Chiapas Coffee.
He mentions Dr. Li Wenliang - who was the first to voice the alarm about coronavirus - and says of him that he "proposed a cure" for COVID-19 before dying "of the same disease."
The message mentions the chemicals "Methylxanthine, Teobromine and Theophylline" as "compounds that can prevent these viruses in humans" to conclude that "our CAFE regularly has all these chemicals."
It also states that in China they have begun "serving coffee to patients three times a day," so "the virus has been contained and community transmission has almost stopped."
We have located on Facebook the origin of the image with the text and logo of "Café Oro Negro" in San Cristóbal de las Casas, Chiapas, Mexico.
Not to be confused with "Café El Oro Negro" also from Chiapas, but in La Fraylesca, about 150 kilometers away and two and a half hours by car according to Google Maps.
The "Coffee Gold Black" page posted the text that Whatsapp had arrived with its logo on its Facebook profile on June 25 at 16: 51, in what appears to be a promotional gesture.
Doing a search on
of the three chemicals mentioned in the message we have found the scientific article "Neurobiology of methylxanthines," published in July 2008 by Rosario Moratalla, researcher of the CSIC.
It confirms that "xanthine caffeine, theophylline and theobromine are indisputably the most used psychostimulants in the world."
But from this same article and another published by Carmelo Uraga Baelo and several researchers it is inferred that the coffee does not contain theophylline or theobromine.
The only methylxanthine that can be found in a cup of coffee is caffeine.
The research is accompanied by a table detailing the amount of each of these chemical compounds found in coffee, tea and cocoa.
Table with the amount of caffeine, theophylline and theobromine contained in coffee, cocoa and tea.
There is no treatment to prevent or cure COVID-19
To date, there is no known scientific evidence that any of these chemicals are effective in preventing or curing coronavirus.
Apart from Remdesivir, there are no drugs with known positive results about the disease.
The World Health Organization (WHO) maintains that there is still no treatment for COVID-19 and that no food protects us from it.
Neither do drinks such as lemon and bicarbonate tea, a possibility already denied by Verifica RTVE, or alkaline diets, which were also said - in another disputable argument - to be effective against coronavirus.
Page
contains an informative article that relates the intake of three cups of coffee a day - mentioned in the text of the bulletin - to a lower risk of death.
The conclusion is that they cannot determine it.
There is no scientific evidence, so they recommend moderate coffee consumption and, above all, "do not create false expectations of longevity."
Another 2005 study on methylxanthine treatment for Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (EPOC) was published on the medical research site
The conclusion is that methylxanthines are not effective in treating EPOC.
Dr. Li Wenliang did not investigate COVID-19.
This Chinese doctor was an ophthalmologist at Wuhan Hospital, from where he warned about the presence of coronavirus.
Li Wenliang, along with seven other doctors at this hospital, explained in December 2019 that they had detected a SARS-like virus, but it was blocked by authorities.
He eventually contracted coronavirus and died at the age of 34, becoming a national hero.
has not published any news about Dr. Li Wenliang and the alleged research on the benefits of coffee to combat SARS-Cov-2.
Search inside the website of
and with the operator "site:" in
has been unsuccessful.
The latest news related to the Chinese doctor is the posthumous birth of his son on June 12.
From Verifica RTVE we can conclude that the coffee does not contain theophylline or theobromine, only caffeine.
Coffee is one of the most widely used psychostimulants in the world but does not prevent or cure coronavirus.
That Dr. Li Wenliang did not investigate the relationship between coffee and COVID-19 and that CNN has not published any articles about it.
This is a hoax.