An investigation gave the exact date of the first coronavirus case in the world.
Medical personnel wearing protective suits treat a patient with pneumonia caused by the new coronavirus at Wuhan University Zhongnan Hospital, image of January 27, 2020.
EDITORIAL ATTENTION, THIS IMAGE HAS BEEN ENTERED BY A THIRD PARTY.
November 17, 2019 is the date of the world's first case of coronavirus (COVID-19).
Patient zero would be a 55-year-old person living in Hubei province, the epicentre of the epidemic that is plaguing the world.
Members of the medical community, who spoke anonymously, claimed that it was only until late December that Chinese hospitals learned that they were facing a new disease.
It was not until January 2020 that an outbreak of the virus was officially reported in the city of Wuhan.
Now that the World Health Organization (WHO) has declared the pandemic, scientists are working against the clock and trying to map the pattern of early transmission of COVID-19.
Researchers try to understand how the disease spread and how undetected and undocumented cases contributed to its transmission.
All this will give the necessary tools to control the virus, reported
After reviewing confidential government information, the Chinese newspaper was able to find out how fast the virus spread in its early days.
Since the first case on 17 November, the number has increased.
By December 15, the total number of people with coronavirus was 27.
By the end of 2019, the number of infected was 266.
On 1 January, the number increased to 381.
The Wuhan International Conference and Exhibition Center has become an improvised hospital for patients with mild symptoms caused by the new coronavirus, in Wuhan, Hubei Province, China, on February 5, 2020.
On 27 December, Zhang Jixian, a physician at Hubei's Provincial Hospital for Integrated Chinese and Western Medicine, warned health authorities that the disease the patients were suffering from was the new coronavirus.
Meanwhile, scientists and researchers attempt to locate patient zero, know its identity, and be able to trace with certainty the source of Covid-19, which is believed to have jumped humans from a wild animal, possibly a bat.
According to the WHO, the first case of coronavirus in China occurred on 8 December.
However, the organization is based on data provided by official authorities.
Medical personnel wearing protective suits treat a patient with pneumonia caused by the new coronavirus at the Zhongnan Hospital of Wuhan University, Wuhan, Hubei Province, China, on January 28, 2020.
Moreover, Dr. Hu Ke has been treating critical patients in Wuhan city for almost two months in very harsh conditions.
In an interview with
EPH
warns that the virus "does not distinguish ages," although most cases are between 40 and 50 years old.
Hu, aged 55, works at Wuhan University's People's Hospital, where he is also a professor of pulmonary medicine and part of the team of medical experts designated by Hubei Province to combat the disease.
He has seen many patients die in front of his eyes, which made him feel "very small and powerless," but he is glad that the situation has "improved a lot" compared to just a few weeks ago, when the patients were piling up at the doors of his hospital and the necessary medical equipment was lacking.