Major hidden interests "cure" of COVID-19: Jaime Maussan on hydrotene forum
Biotinmaussan.com
The researcher of extraterrestrial phenomena, Jaime Maussan, claimed that "huge interests" halted the presentation in the Senate of the Republic of hydrotene, the alleged "cure" against COVID-19 promoted by Maussan himself.
On Tuesday, a speech will be held in the Senate of the Republic to present hydrotene, a miracle product that according to Jaime Maussan has saved several patients with COVID-19 from death.
You may be interested: Hydrotene, the "cure" against COVID-19 promoted by Jaime Maussan
The purpose of the presentation of hydrotene in the Senate was to present evidence demonstrating its efficacy, as well as to propose a scientific protocol to validate its results.
There are huge interests that prevent products like Hydrotene from being officially investigated, so that a Scientific Protocol can be made that demonstrates its effectiveness against Covid.We are at war against a disease that kills thousands of people every day - Jaime Maussan (@jaimemaussan1) November 23, 2020
However, the news that Jaime Maussan would be one of the experts invited to argue the efficacy of hydrotene caused a stir in social media, so the forum was canceled hours before it was realized.
In this regard, the alien phenomenon researcher responded to the forum's cancellation on his Twitter account and said that "an extraordinary opportunity is being missed for the people of Mexico to know the truth" because "there are strong interests."
Also, Jaime Maussan criticized those who classify hydrotene as a miracle product and assured that all the drugs included in the so-called Biotiquin Maussan are safe so they will continue with them.
The Senators' Forum, where evidence that the Red Carotene saves the lives of sick people by Covid was to be presented, was cancelled.
An extraordinary opportunity is lost for the people of Mexico to learn the truth.
There are strong interests.
- Jaime Maussan (@jaimemaussan1) November 23, 2020
This is not the first time we have heard of hydrotene.
Last October 28, the creator of the drug.
Juan Alfonso García Urbina, presented at the afternoon conference of the Secretariat of Health to present a report on the drug.
The drug is still under analysis by the Federal Commission for the Prevention of Health Risks (Cofepris), although in Coahuila another Morena deputy organized several trials with the drug without permission from the health authorities.
You may also be interested: cheaper and easier to transport: AstraZeneca vaccine is 70.4% effective
So far, there has been no ruling by the authorities on this alleged "cure" of COVID-19, but it should be made clear that there is no official treatment of COVID-19 so far.
In #ElFinancieroBloomberg @ jaimemaussan1 spoke about the cancellation of the forum that promoted the use of the product 'Hydrotene' as a treatment against COVID-19; and argued that "this product was not invented for the coronavirus, it was a coincidence."