It's false that "Dr. Fauci approved hydroxychloroquine 15 years ago to cure coronaviruses."
A Facebook image says Anthony Fauci, head of the COVID-19 management team in the United States, knows that chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine "cure" coronaviruses.
"Dr. Anthony Fauci, (...), has known since 2005 that chloroquine is an effective inhibitor of coronaviruses," he stated at the beginning of the publication.
The main argument for this claim lies in a study published by Virology Journal, which analyzed the ability of chloroquine to inhibit the virus that causes SARS.
According to the post, this shows that this medicine not only cures, but also prevents coronavirus infections.
He also mentions that this research was carried out by the National Institutes of Health (NIH), of which Anthony Fauci is said to be the director.
However, these claims are wrong.
This means, of course, that Dr. Fauci has known for 15 years that even lighter chloroquine and its hydroxychloroquine derivative (HCQ) would not only treat a current case of coronavirus ('therapeutic'), but would avoid future cases ('prophylactic').
So HCQ works as a cure and a 'vaccine'. "
It has been published since July 29.
Source: Facebook
First, although there is research called "Chloroquine is a potent inhibitor of SARS coronavirus infection and spread," it does not ensure that chloroquine or hydroxychloroquine are the cure for any disease.
"Apart from the likely role of chloroquine in SARS-CoV replication, the mechanisms of action of chloroquine on SARS-CoV are not fully understood," the study explains.
In addition, the results obtained are inconclusive, as they were not applied to animals or humans.
"We report that chloroquine has strong antiviral effects on SARS-CoV infection of primate cells," is read in research conducted in preclinical (laboratory) studies.
It is recommended to continue studies in animals.
Additional assessment of chloroquine in animal models of SARS-CoV infection would be warranted as we move towards finding effective antivirals for the prevention or treatment of the disease.
It should be noted that even these results are not extrapolable to all coronaviruses, as the Facebook post suggests, since SARS-CoV is different.
"Full genome sequencing of SARS-CoV confirmed that this pathogen is not closely related to any of the previously established coronavirus groups," the scientific publication states.
Second, that study was not published by the National Institutes of Health nor is Anthony Fauci the director of that entity.
As mentioned above, the research was disseminated in the Virology Journal, a free-access magazine as reported on its website.
Virology Journal is a peer-reviewed open access journal that considers articles on all aspects of virology, including research on animal, plant and microbial viruses.
So anyone can review this research since 2005.
In addition, contrary to the publication, Anthony Fauci is not the director of the NIH.
The director is geneticist Francis S. Collins, while Fauci has served as director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID) at the NIH since 1984.
The director of the NIH is geneticist Francis S. Collins.
Source: NIH
Fauci has been director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID) at the NIH since 1984.
Source: NIH
We also found that the only relationship of the study with the National Institutes of Health in the United States is that the scientific essay was disseminated through the National Library of Medicine at the NIH.
However, it has not received funding or been published by the US Institutes of Health.
"This work was supported by a Canadian PENCE (T3) grant, CIHR group grant # MGC 64518 and CIHR grant # MGP-44363 (to NGS)," the study details.
Finally, although the publication claims that this study has proven that hydroxychloroquine is effective for SARS and coronaviruses in general, the truth is that there is no cure for this disease so far.
"There is no cure or vaccine for SARS and treatment must be supportive and based on the patient's symptoms," the World Health Organization emphasizes.
Hydrochloroquine in the treatment of COVID-19
Hydrochloroquine is one of the drugs that has been proposed as a possible treatment for the new coronavirus.
Its use has been promoted by political leaders such as Donald Trump and Jair Bolsonaro.
However, studies in recent months have revealed that hydroxychloroquine does not block coronavirus infection in human lung cells.
"These results indicate that chloroquine is directed to a viral activation pathway that is not operative in lung cells and is unlikely to protect against the spread of SARS-CoV-2 in and among patients," read a study published in the journal Nature.
In addition, some of the patients had adverse events detrimental to their health.
"The FDA warns against the use of hydroxychloroquine or chloroquine for COVID-19 outside the hospital setting or in a clinical trial due to the risk of heart rate problems," warned the US Food and Drug Administration.
Therefore, Peruvian doctors have recommended discontinuing the use of this product.
"Based on the evidence of the lack of efficacy, and its risk of toxicity, we believe that the recommendation to use hydroxychloroquine in COVID-19 should be re-evaluated and discontinued as soon as possible," says a letter sent by a group of twelve Peruvian doctors and researchers to Minsa.
Despite not adopting this suggestion, the Ministry of Health, through the Directorate-General for Medicinal Products, Insects and Drugs, recalls that self-medication with hydroxychloroquine or any other compound is not recommended.
Conclusions
Hydrochloroquine does not cure or prevent coronavirus infection.
The scientific study cited in the publication was applied in laboratory tests and published in the Virology Journal and not by the National Institutes of Health (NIH) as mentioned in the post.
In addition, Anthony Fauci is not the director of NIH, but of NIAID.
Therefore, it is false that "Dr. Fauci approved hydroxychloroquine 15 years ago to cure coronaviruses."