There is no evidence that hydroxychloroquine and azithromycin kill COVID
On June 15, 2020, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) revoked the emergency use authorization (US) that allowed chloroquine phosphate and hydroxychloroquine sulfate to be used to treat patients with COVID-19.
The FDA announced that day that chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine are unlikely to be effective in the treatment of COVID-19 and could cause serious side effects.
On Facebook a user posted on May 9: "LO LOGRARON HIDROXICROQUINA and AZITROMICINA.
They kill the Coronavirus in four days at 100 / 100.
Joy all over the world.
French scientist achieves the feat by giving the exact dose of these medicines that are well known in the world there is great existence and they are cheap.
Thank you for this blessing. "
The publication was shared over 3,000 times, and although some users doubted that the information was correct, many others were pleased and some even said, "I prefer this to Don Bill's," referring to investor Bill Gates, owner of the foundation that funds several pharmacological projects to contain COVID-19.
Still no cure for COVID-19
However, as of May 20, there is no specific drug or treatment to treat or prevent COVID-19, according to the World Health Organization (WHO).
In fact, the WHO specifically notes that "although several drug trials are underway, it has not yet been shown that hydroxychloroquine or any other drug can cure or prevent COVID-19."
The WHO also warns that "misuse of hydroxychloroquine can cause serious side effects and health problems and even death."
The WHO also states that it "does not recommend self-medicating with any drug, including antibiotics (such as azithromycin), to prevent or cure COVID-19."
Are there studies with hydroxychloroquine in France?
French microbiologist Didier Raoult, director of the Mediterranean Institute of Infections in Marseille, has conducted several studies on the effectiveness of hydroxychloroquine and azithromycin as a treatment for COVID-19.
On 17 March he presented one of his studies.
Dr. Raoult evaluated the role of hydroxychloroquine in respiratory viral loads of 36 patients with COVID-19.
The conclusion of this first study was that although the number of patients examined was small, its results show that "treatment with hydroxychloroquine is significantly associated with reduction / disappearance of viral load in patients with COVID-19 and its effect is reinforced by azithromycin."
That same study was referred to by US President Donald Trump for a week.
He even posted a tweet that we explained in this other note.
But on April 3, the International Society of Antimicrobial Chemotherapy (ISAC) noted that the study "does not meet the Society's expected standard, especially in relation to the lack of better explanations of the criteria for inclusion and classification of patients to ensure patient safety."
In a second study, now with 80 patients, Dr. Raoult and his team concluded that "we confirm the efficacy of azithromycin-associated hydroxychloroquine in the treatment of COVID-19 and its potential effectiveness in the early decline of infection."
And they asked other scientific teams to evaluate that medical strategy.
But this investigation also received criticism from other experts.
International media such as Frances 24 and Clarín have reported that a third study by Dr. Raoult's team was also questioned by many scientists.
The investigation is considered controversial.
Free journalism needs its readers.
Let 's keep telling the stories that matter.
YoSoy
Dyr
Approved for emergency use
However, the French government decreed on 26 March that "hydroxychloroquine and the combination of lopinavir / ritonavir may be prescribed, dispensed and administered under the responsibility of a physician to patients with COVID-19, in the health establishments in charge of them, as well as for the continuation of their treatment if their condition permits and with the authorization of the initial physician, in the home."
But that doesn't mean it's a cure.
As we have already mentioned: "For the time being, no specific medication is recommended to prevent or treat infection with the new coronavirus."
On March 30, the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) issued an Emergency Use Authorization (US) to allow products of hydroxychloroquine sulfate and chloroquine phosphate to be distributed and prescribed by physicians to adolescent and adult patients hospitalized with COVID-19.
Emergency use authorization requires that information sheets on these drugs "including known risks and pharmacological interactions" be given to patients and medical dispensers.
But on April 7, former FDA commissioners reported in Science magazine that the emergency approval was based on "weak evidence," also saying that it "jeopardized research to know the real value of coronavirus drugs."
Other studies
On April 14, another study was published on medRxiv.org, a preprint server.
Studies published on this website have not been peer reviewed.
This research concluded that their results "do not support the use of hydroxychloroquine in patients hospitalized for a documented SARS-CoV-2 pneumonia."
On April 26, the FDA and the Canadian Public Health Agency warned that "chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine can cause serious side effects" and that the product cannot be used "outside hospitals or clinical trials, due to heart rate mismatches."
On May 13, a new study on the combination of hydroxychloroquine and azithromycin to combat the SARS-CoV-2 virus was published in the International Journal of Antimicrobial Agents.
This research was led by Jacques Fantini and concluded that both drugs "have synergistic antiviral effects on SARS-CoV-2 infection, which supports the use of this combination therapy for the COVID-19 pandemic.
AFP reported in another verification that on 22 April another US government-funded study claimed that hydroxychloroquine treatment showed no benefit against the new coronavirus, and in fact was associated with more deaths.
That same day, a group of experts discouraged the use of the drug to treat COVID-19.
On 16 May, France 24 reported that new scientific studies revealed that "treatments for patients with COVID-19 with the anti-inflammatory drug hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) did not have positive effects and do cause other health complications, indicate two new studies."
Misinformation Is Dangerous
On Sunday, March 23, a couple in Arizona heard President Donald Trump say that chloroquine had been approved, that it was safe and effective.
As a result, they believed they could use chloroquine phosphate, which was used to clean aquariums, as a preventative measure for COVID-19, according to a report by The Intercept.
The man, who was 68, and his wife, 61, drank the substance.
In less than 30 minutes they were transferred to a hospital in the Phoenix area, where the man died and his wife remained under critical care.
In interviews for Vaughn Hillyard of NBC News, the surviving woman stated that she "kept saying she was approved for other things and, you know, Trump kept saying she was basically a cure."
You don't believe anything the president and his people say, because they don't know what they're talking about.
And don't take anything, be very careful, and call your doctor.
I mean, this is a heart pain I'll never get over, "the woman said.
There are already medical studies with hydroxychloroquine in Mexico.
According to La Jornada, Gustavo Reyes Terán, head of the Coordinating Commission of the National Institutes of Health and Hospitals of High Speciality, said in an interview that in Mexico three clinical trials will begin to test the efficacy of some drugs to treat COVID-19.
The trials will be conducted at the National Institutes of Respiratory Diseases and Medical Sciences and Nutrition Salvador Zubirán.
Two of them will test the efficacy of hydroxychloroquine to inhibit the virus's entry into cells.
WHO has launched the clinical trial "Solidarity" on treatments against COVID-19.One of the drugs being analysed is hydroxychloroquine.
Sabueso is one of more than 91 fact-checkers from 40 countries that form the alliance coordinated by the International Fact-checker Network to discredit false information related to coronavirus.
Find the verifications of this international alliance with the hashtags # CoronaVirusFacts and # DatosCoronaVirus, or visit this page.
See also our microsite with all the verifications we have done so far on Covid-19.