Tests fail to provide effective treatment for covid-19
The World Health Organization (WHO), the World Health Organization (WHO), the World Health Organization (WHO), the World Health Organization (WHO), the World Health Organization (WHO), the World Health Organization (WHO), the World Health Organization (WHO), the World Health Organization (WHO), the World Health Organization (WHO), the World Health Organization (WHO), the World Health Organization (WHO), the World Health Organization (WHO), the World Health Organization (WHO), the World
All drugs used in trials are approved drugs and are used for other diseases.
The World Health Organization (WHO), which coordinates the trial, reported these results today, involving hydroxychloroquine (the active ingredient antipaludic), the antiviral remdesivir, the anti-retroviral lopinavir / ritonavir and interferon (a group of proteins).
However, the US biotechnology company Gilead, which produces remdesivir, disagrees with the WHO's conclusion that it respects its drug.
According to the WHO, all these drugs "appear to have little or no effect" on mortality and outcome among hospitalized covid patients.
The study has been conducted in 30 countries and has focused on the effects of these treatments on mortality, the need for respiratory assistance and the duration of hospitalization.
The Organization indicated that it remains to be determined whether these same drugs are useful in the treatment of those who do not require hospitalization or as prevention, aspects that will need to be examined in future trials.
Half a thousand hospitals are participating in WHO-approved trials, which will soon continue with different products, which may be other antivirals, immunomodulators, and monoclonal antibodies.
The only drug that according to the WHO has shown interesting results is dexamethasone, which was recently administered to President Donald Trump after he became infected with coronavirus.
However, this drug (from the steroid family) is recommended for severe patients in hospitals requiring respiratory assistance.
In a statement issued shortly after the position of the Organization was known, the Gilead company argued that the data did not match the results of another recently published study sponsored by the United States National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases.
According to biotechnology, hospitalized patients who received remdesivir recovered on average five days before those who took placebo, and with those in more severe condition recovery was seven days faster.
He added that "the possibility of patients evolving to more severe stages was reduced" and that his drug "reduces the ability of the virus to replicate in the body."
On mortality, Gilead says that remissions reduce it and that for all these reasons it "already has authorization for temporary use in the treatment of patients with gout in more than 50 countries."
EPH