Using masks does not cause oxygen deficiency
"The prolonged use of the mask produces hypoxia," several Facebook posts claim referring to the lack of oxygen in the organism, and that were shared over 23,000 times since late April in the context of the new coronavirus emergency.
However, according to experts consulted by AFP, the seals do not block the passage of oxygen.
"Breathing exhaled air over and over again becomes carbon dioxide, so we feel foggy (...) It is counterproductive for people who serve the public for 8 hours, as they are being poisoned without knowing it," said.......
says the shared text on Facebook (1, 2, 3, 4), Twitter (1, 2) and Instagram (1, 2), and that also circulated in Portuguese (1, 2).
Screenshot of a Facebook post on May 4, 2020
The claim was posted on this website which, according to CrowdTangle's records, has been shared 16,000 times on Facebook since April 29.
It is recommended to use it only if you have someone in front of you or very close, and it is important to remember to lift it every 10 minutes to keep feeling healthy.
Continue the message.
Hypoxia is
"the lack of oxygen on a given tissue.
I can have brain, muscle, kidney, lung, etc. "
, explained in a telephone conversation with AFP Factual Dr. Emilio Herrera, an academic of the physiology program of the University of Chile and expert in hypoxia.
Herrera ruled out that the use of mascara could result in this lack of oxygen.
It is impossible to produce hypoxia.
For that, it would have to be a mask sealed all over our skin.
What limits masquerades are the passage of larger molecules. "
The doctor added that the masks do allow air exchange, and that the space between the cover and the face does not accumulate carbon dioxide.
On the other hand, Claudio Méndez, professor of Health Policy at the Universidad Austral de Chile, ruled out that the use of masks would generate hypoxia while the material allows air exchange.
In the case of the covers used by health officials, the use of the model
N95 is usually no longer than seven hours.
In the case of surgical masks, they are used for less time.
Both are far from generating hypoxia. "
Méndez detailed the effects of hypoxia on the human body:
It can lead to fainting, disorientation, coordination problems, changes heart rate.
It can severely affect the normal physiology of a human being. "
The publication also states that it is "
counterproductive
The use of masks in people who serve the public for eight hours because
In this regard, Dr. Méndez explained that health personnel should not use them for more than seven hours, but for a reason unrelated to hypoxia: "
The life of a mask does not give more than seven hours because it has been exposed to the virus for a long time and loses its effectiveness
So far, the N95 masks - or the simple ones - are made to try not to alter people's physiological functions.
Mendez added.
A pharmaceutical company shows mascara models on April 29, 2020 in Paris