Strong denounces a nurse in New York: "They're killing coronavirus patients, nobody cares because they're minorities."
A nurse's story in New York
I don't know what to do anymore.
An American nurse recorded a desperate account of the daily situation she faces in a hospital in New York, one of the world's foci of the coronavirus pandemic, in the face of deaths that she claims are not only due to the virus, but also due to lack of treatment and even neglect, especially with African-American patients.
I know not everyone will survive, I'm not that innocent.
I know we're gonna have a lot of casualties.
But these people are not dying of coronavirus (...) I'm telling you literally they're killing these people.
And nobody listens to me, "said Nicole Sirotek, who worked until a few days ago at Elmhurst Hospital in Queens, one of the most affected areas of the metropolis.
Sirotek, in a 24-minute video, detailed several examples he claimed to have witnessed in which treatments were applied that eventually killed the patients, such as incorrect intubations or defibrillations at inappropriate times.
I saw an anesthesiologist place an ET tube and break an esophagus and the guy suffocated to death with his own blood.
The coronavirus did not place that tube incorrectly, "he said.
He also claims to have complained about the situation, but his complaints have not been heard.
Even support organizations don't give a shit about these people.
Literally, black people's lives don't matter here.
And, I mean, it's pretty sad that someone who is white and lives hundreds of miles from this city cares more for these people than for those in this city, "said Sirotek, a nurse from Nevada who moved to help with the crisis.
Paramedics riding a patient to an ambulance outside Elmhurst Hospital Center during the COVID-19 pandemic, coronavirus disease, in Queens District (Reuters)
Nobody cares because they're all minorities and we're in the fucking neighborhood.
And that's not good.
I grew up very poor and I know what it is to be completely forgotten and that nobody stands up for you, "he lamented.
In Queens, a disproportionate number of those infected are African-Americans and Latinos, mostly essential workers who had no choice but to stay in their homes.
Sirotek, who has worked as a nurse for a decade, even drew a comparison with the Holocaust.
The only way to put this in context for everyone is, and this is going to be kind of an extreme example, this is really the only thing that comes to mind.
It 's like we' re in Nazi Germany, and they 're taking the Jews to put them in a gas chamber, and I' m the one who says, "" Hey, this is not good. ""....
We shouldn't do this. "
In this sense, he also criticized the attempts of understanding he received, as he considered them insufficient.
So everybody says to me, 'Hang on, you're doing a great job.
You can't save everyone.
You're amazing.
You're a great nurse. '
Guys, I know I'm a fucking great nurse.
I know I go there and I give you 500% every day.
I know I'm not being negligent.
Okay, I know, fuck.
What I need is someone to help me save these people from being killed.
Serious negligence and complete medical mismanagement.
And no one is listening to me, "he claimed.
The video was viral this Wednesday, the date on which the United States celebrates National Nurses' Day.
The state of New York has reported more than 330,000 infections and 25,436 deaths.
Although the authorities claim that the health system has resisted, as the number of hospitalizations has always been below bed capacity, in several hospitals the situation has been severe and patients have not always received the necessary care.
For the time being, authorities at Elmhurst Hospital have not responded to the allegations made.