RAI video in 2015 and zero scientific evidence that coronavirus was created in a Chinese laboratory in 2015
A fragment of the program has been viral on social media
broadcast on Italian television channel RAI in November 2015 in which the presenter talks about a coronavirus created in a Chinese laboratory from bats and mice and which could affect humans.
This experiment was published days earlier in the scientific journal
Natura
In addition,
(old
Intereconomics)
published on 29 March this fragment of the Italian program [min.
54: 35] and one of the collaborators noted that "there are some guys in the world who are playing with the life and health of the entire universe.
See what we are living in. "
59: 52.
There is no scientific evidence that the coronavirus was man-made: the scientific community claims that SARS-CoV-2 has a natural origin.
On November 12, 2015, the magazine
published the findings of a research group that had been able to "infect bat coronavirus directly to humans (rather than need to evolve first into an intermediate animal host)."
Four days later, on 16 November 2015, the Italian public television, RAI, aired the programme.
, specialized in scientific information, and spoke of the results of "a group of Chinese researchers who injected a surface protein taken from bats into a virus that causes SARS derived from mice," creating "a supervirus that could affect humans" [from min.
4: 55.
Natura
has explained that the coronavirus they talk about in the article has nothing to do with what is causing COVID-19
But recently,
He added a note to clarify that the coronavirus referred to in the article has nothing to do with what is causing COVID-19: "We are aware that this experiment is being used as a basis for unverified theories that the new coronavirus causing COVID-19 was designed in a laboratory."
He added, "There is no evidence that this is true."
Editor's note of Nature article published last November 12, 2015
In this sense, the Italian newspaper
Corriere della Sera.
has published that "the same director of the Rai channel, Alessandro Casarin," has explained how the programme
based on a magazine publication
But the same magazine has clarified that "the virus mentioned in the program, created in the laboratory, has no relation to the current virus that causes Covid-19."
Scientists release a statement against rumors about the origin of coronavirus
We have already explained to you that in order to disprove these rumors and conspiracy theories about the origin of the new coronavirus, public health scientists who have closely followed the health crisis of the new coronavirus have published a statement in the magazine..............
in which they point out that "scientists from multiple countries overwhelmingly conclude that this coronavirus originated in the wild."
The main aim of the text is to condemn and disprove rumors that the origin of the epidemic was not natural, but a human creation as a tool for achieving all kinds of goals (reducing the aging population, equalizing the number of men and women...).
The authors of this article, published in the scientific forum
Virologisk
, indicate that "genomic evidence does not support the possibility that the new coronavirus was created in a laboratory."
This other study indicates that the origin of SARS-CoV-2 was mutations and natural selection, in addition to recombination of SARS-CoV, the virus capable of infecting animals such as the bat.
In addition, this research published in the magazine
concludes that the genome of the new coronavirus is 96% identical to that of the coronavirus capable of infecting bats.
In the same line, an article published in
Naturmedicin
concluded that SARS-CoV-2 "is not a laboratory construct or a purposefully manipulated virus."
"We have seen how public health professionals and doctors, in China in particular, have worked diligently and efficiently to quickly identify the pathogen behind this outbreak, to implement meaningful measures to reduce its impact, and to share its results with the global health community," the authors state at the beginning of the statement published in
Therefore, it is not true that the coronavirus was created in a Chinese laboratory from bats and mice and could affect humans as there is no scientific evidence and the scientific community claims that the origin of SARS-CoV-2 is "in the wild."
(*) This piece has been updated on 2 / 04 / 2020 to add that this same video circulates with the capture of
Toro TV
because last day 29 / 03 / 2020 was published the fragment of the Italian television network during the program.