raloxifene could be an "effective treatment" in mild cases of Covid-19, calculated by supercomputing
Virtual test with molecules
.. writing.
Raloxifene, a gene drug for osteoporosis that prevents bone loss in postmenopausal women, is outlined as a drug that
could be effective
for patients with Covid-19 with mild symptomatology.
In computer simulation testing, it has been shown to be effective in preventing virus replication in cells.
Supercomputing tests have shown that raloxifene is effective in preventing virus replication in cells and thereby preventing the spread of Covid-19
So announced this Thursday by the research consortium
It uses a supercomputing platform to study the impact of known molecules against SARS-CoV-2.
Researchers believe it could be used in infected patients who show a light clinic to stop the spread of the infection.
In addition, raloxifene has been shown to be effective against MERS and SARS in preclinical tests.
It is a well-tolerated drug with a well-known safety profile.
Researchers have proposed to test this generic in clinical trials and are already working with the European Medicines Agency (EMA) to find the quickest way to achieve those trials in humans, according to the Excalate4Cov consortium, which is funded by the European Commission and whose members include the Barcelona Supercomputing Centre.
If successful, the drug might be quickly available in high volumes and at low cost.
Researchers have proposed to test raloxifene in mild cases of Covid-19 in clinical trials
The conclusion of the good results that could be achieved with raloxifene was reached after computer simulation testing with more than 400,000 molecules available.
Those already in the market or clinical phase were prioritized.
Seven thousand molecules were pre-selected with characteristics that could be promising against Covid-19.
According to the consortium, the intellectual protection of the drug for its use against Covid-19 has been registered on behalf of Dompé Pharmaceuticals, Fraunhofer Institute and KU Leuven, members of the consortium,
to promote universal access
the medicine.
In addition, all scientific data produced by the consortium will be in the public domain.
The conclusion of the good results that could be achieved with raloxifene was reached after the computational simulation test with more than 400,000 molecules available
Using a European supercomputing platform, one of the most powerful in the world, Exscalate4CoV can carry out a screening process that with traditional techniques would take years.
In a first phase, he has already identified six of the 25 distinct protein models of the new coronavirus that are in constant evolution.
In addition, it receives several mutations weekly, which are translated into digital form for use in the next phase.
The second phase involves comparing the digital structure of coronavirus proteins with the available library of molecules and finding matches.
In the third and final phase, the identified molecules undergo several additional biological screening operations in laboratories located in Belgium and Germany.
Thus, they understand how each identified molecule interacts with the virus model and to assess to what extent it can stop its activity.
Additional news: