Conspiracy theories about the Coronavirus.
Image taken from: https: / / diariodeavicos.elespanol.com /
The following are the most famous conspiracy theories that exist so far about Coronavirus.
Donald Trump's Plan
Because of the trade war between China and the United States, there was no need for speculators to speculate that the Coronavirus was part of Donald Trump's strategy.
The conspiracy theory states that the Coronavirus was developed by the U.S. government to affect China's economy.
The true part of this theory is that the Asian giant has indeed been hit hard by the virus.
That the coronavirus was created in a laboratory
This is another of the most common conspiracy theories about coronavirus.
Some claim that the virus was created by scientists as a biological weapon.
The arguments supporting this version point out that the city of Wuhan, where the virus began, remains the only level 4 laboratory in all of China.
Another version claims that the virus was created in a Canadian laboratory and was obtained by the Chinese through espionage work.
The support for this version lies in the news that a Chinese microbiologist was expelled from the Canadian Microbiology Laboratory for violating the establishment's policies.
Maybe you're interested: CoronaVirus situation in the world, contagion and death numbers.
A demographic control measure
This is another of the most common theories: that coronavirus was designed to combat overpopulation.
Some claim that the disease primarily affects the elderly and is a measure of population control.
But the truth is that the disease affects the lungs and is worse depending on the patient's weakness.
Image taken from: https: / / www.alimente.elconfidence.com /
There are also those who say it is worse for men, and therefore suspect that it is a demographic control measure to balance the number of men with women in Chinese society.
So much for the fake information about the virus that both Instagram and Facebook have announced they will implement measures to control it.