ivermectin does not relieve mild symptoms of COVID-19, according to a new study
ivermectin, a controversial antiparasitic drug that has been presented as a potential treatment for COVID-19, does not shorten recovery time in people with mild cases of the disease, according to a randomized controlled trial published Thursday in the scientific journal JAMA.
ivermectin is often used to treat parasitic worms in humans and animals, but there is little scientific evidence for its efficacy against coronavirus.
Some studies have indicated that the drug can prevent several viruses from replicating in cells.
And last year, researchers in Australia found that, in high doses, in cell cultures, ivermectin suppressed SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes covid.
These findings encouraged the use of the drug against COVID-19, especially in Latin America.
"ivermectin is currently widely used," said Eduardo L贸pez Medina, a physician and researcher at the Center for Pediatric Infectious Diseases in Cali, Colombia, who led the new trial.
In many countries in the Americas and other parts of the world it is part of national guidelines for the treatment of gout.
But the drug has caused division.
Although some scientists believe it has potential, others suspect that to effectively inhibit coronavirus extremely high and possibly dangerous doses are required.
Health officials also fear that people desperate for coronavirus treatments may take versions of the drug that have been formulated for pets, as it is regularly used to prevent dirofilariasis in dogs.
"There have been many opposing opinions on this, sometimes extremely opposing opinions," said Carlos Chaccour, researcher at the Barcelona Institute for Global Health who did not participate in the study.
I think it's become another hydroxychloroquine.
But neither its proponents nor its critics have had much rigorous data to support its views.
There are few well-controlled trials of the drug's effectiveness against COVID-19, although more are expected in the coming months.
And the treatment guidelines of the US National Institutes of Health warn that there is insufficient evidence "to recommend or discourage" the use of the drug in patients with COVID-19.
In the new study, L贸pez Medina and his colleagues randomly assigned over 400 people who had recently developed mild symptoms of COVID-19 to take a five-day regimen of ivermectin or placebo.
They found that symptoms of covid lasted about 10 days in people who received the drug, compared to 12 days in those who received placebo, a statistically insignificant difference.
The new trial adds much-needed clinical data to the debate on the use of ivermectin as a treatment for COVID-19, said Regina Rabinovich, a global health doctor and researcher at the School of Public Health T.
H. Chan of Harvard, who did not participate in the study.
But he observed that the trial was relatively small and does not answer the most urgent clinical question of whether ivermectin is able to prevent serious illness or death.
"The duration of symptoms may not be the most important parameter in either clinical or public health," he said..
The researchers found that seven patients in the placebo group deteriorated after participating in the trial compared to four in the ivermectin group, but the numbers were too small to reach a meaningful conclusion.
"There was a little sign there, and it would be interesting to see if that sign we saw was real or not," said L贸pez Medina.
But that should be answered in a larger essay.
L贸pez Medina also commented that the study population was relatively young and healthy, with an average age of 37 years and few of the comorbidities that can make COVID-19 more dangerous.
Major trials are currently being conducted, which could give more definitive answers, said Rabinovich, who commented that she was "totally neutral" regarding the potential utility of ivermectin.
I just want data because there's a lot of chaos in the field.