13 Apr First patient with COVID-19 at University Hospital treated with plasma from recovered patient
A COVID-19 patient at UW Hospital received the first plasma transfusion from a local patient who donated it since he recovered from the disease.
The UW School of Medicine and Public Health and UW Health are part of a national effort to study whether plasma from people who have recovered from COVID-19 administered to patients who are seriously ill with the disease can help shorten the duration or severity of their disease.
Plasma is the liquid portion of blood that contains, among other components, antibodies that fight pathogens produced by the body in response to an infection.
The immune system of those who recover, or convalesce, from COVID-19 produces antibodies that can help detect and fight the virus that causes it, SARS-CoV-2.
Using convalescent plasma involves taking these antibodies and giving them to sick patients who are still fighting the virus.
The local principal investigator is William Hartman, a professor of anesthesiology.
The school is part of a national consortium led by Mayo Clinic and includes over 40 institutions investigating the use of convalescent plasma as treatment for COVID-19.
"The idea of using blood from someone who has already recovered from a disease to treat a patient who is fighting that same disease has existed for over 100 years, and has since been used to treat outbreaks of other diseases, such as diphtheria, Spanish Influenza and Ebola," says Hartman.
While we hope it will provide similar benefits for patients who are ill with COVID-19, we still do not know the answer.
Convalescence plasma therapy has been studied during coronavirus outbreaks that caused the SARS-CoV-2003 epidemic of 1 and the MERS-CoV epidemic of 2012.
It was also used during the influenza virus pandemic H2009N2010 1-1.
Based on these studies and some limited data recently published by doctors in China, Hartman and others believe that convalescent plasma has the potential to decrease the severity or shorten the duration of the disease caused by SARS-CoV-2.
Earlier this month, the Food and Drug Administration rushed the compassionate use of convalescent plasma, an unapproved treatment, for the care of patients with serious and life-threatening diseases caused by COVID-19.
Hartman and his team worked all day to begin the clinical trial, which would normally have taken many months to complete.
"Realising this concept in such a short time required a Herculean effort on the part of a team of extremely talented and dedicated people at this and other institutions," says Betsy Nugent, director of clinical research at the University of Washington's Faculty of Medicine and Public Health.
The fact that this research team was able to complete approximately 10 months of work in less than a week to launch this project says a lot about its dedication and compassion and highlights the institution's commitment to leading the development of innovative clinical treatments.
The rapid development and launch of the COVID-19 clinical trial required close collaboration between the Faculty of Medicine and Public Health, UW Health, the UW Institute of Clinical and Transitional Research and local partners, including Exact Sciences, which provides the required COVID-19 tests from all potential plasma donors, and the local offices of the American Red Cross, which extracts, processes and delivers plasma to UW Hospital.
Green Cab and Zerology will provide donors with free transportation for testing and plasma donation.
The trial was conducted despite the fact that many of the people involved are now working off-site due to the pandemic, says Allan Brasier, Executive Director of the Institute for Clinical and Translational Research.
We have been able to focus on quickly enabling this study while ensuring that the safety of our participants, suppliers and researchers remains paramount.
As more people recover from COVID-19 in Wisconsin, more people will be eligible to participate.
Potential donors must have received a confirmed diagnosis of COVID-19, must be symptom-free for at least 14 days, and must be re-examined to confirm that they are now negative for COVID-19.
Those deemed eligible will be assigned directly to a specific patient who needs it.
Experimental treatment is thought to be a last resort for patients who are very ill, and your doctor should refer them.
People who have recovered from a confirmed diagnosis of COVID-19 and wish to donate their plasma for use in this experimental treatment can get more information by calling 608-262-8300 or sending an email uwcovid19project @ hslc.wisc.edu.
Replaced by UW-Madison School of Medicine and Public Health