Is it true that SARS-CoV-2 is losing virulence?
The virus spreads little in Spain through containment measures, but there is no scientific evidence that it has lost its strength.
https: / / elpais.com / ciencia / 2020-06-02 / es-certa-que-el-virus-sars-cov-2-esta-losing-virulencia.html
The question comes from statements made by an Italian doctor, an anesthesiologist at a Milan hospital, and Silvio Berlusconi's doctor, who said that when they collect samples from a patient with a cough, the viral load being detected is much lower now than it was a few weeks ago.
For starters, these statements do little good, especially in the Mediterranean countries, where there are people who think this is over.
The reality is very different.
For starters, the virus has not disappeared.
We must not forget that Monday this week has been the first day in Spain in which no death by covid has been reported since the beginning of March.
We can't forget that.
As we cannot forget either that they are still infected, there are still outbreaks of infection.
The virus is still circulating.
Little is circulating because we make it increasingly difficult, but if we relax, the virus will continue to infect because there is still a susceptible population.
We cannot think that it has already ended because that is not the case: in the Spanish population we have immunity that can range between 5% and 20%, that is, far from the 60% that is considered necessary for there to be a collective immunity capable of ending the transmission of the virus.
If we relax, the virus will continue to infect because there is still a susceptible population.
We can't think it's over because it's not. "
So the virus is there and the virus has the ability to infect.
We know that because we still have new cases of people getting infected.
I don't know what evidence that Italian doctor has to make this claim, but what I have tells me the opposite.
And in science, we work with evidence, with data.
Data handled in Spain say that the virus spreads little because we have internalized the need for social distance, because most people wear masks (though they should be more), and because all those barriers make it difficult.
But as soon as we get out of the way and stop following these measures, foci like Córdoba, Ceuta, Murcia or Lleida appear.
That tells us that we can go back to our lives little by little but keep all these issues of hygiene, social distance and masks.
As for the question that, at present, when samples are collected, there is less viral load because the disease is being detected earlier.
Now they 're testing asymptomatic patients who were never seen before because the priority was to save the hundreds of people who were in the ICU.
Now that, fortunately, we no longer have that priority, epidemiological detections and traceability of the infections that are detecting asymptomatic and symptomatic early stages have been implemented and, in both cases, the viral load is less than that of a person who is already with the disease in a serious stage.
There are also those who are saying that the virus has mutated and is now less virulent.
Right now, a lot of coronaviruses are being sequenced around the world and you 're seeing the virus changing, and mutating because it' s an RNA virus.
But, so far, I have not seen any data or sequence that is associated with low virulence with proven data; there are hypotheses, but it is still early.
Scientists don 't have that data.
It may be a perception of clinicians, but until we have the data, it cannot be asserted.
Having clarified this point, viruses in general, when they jump to a new host, as in this case SARS-CoV-2 (which has jumped from an animal to people) do everything possible to spread.
The best strategy for a virus is not to kill the host but to keep the hosts alive so that they can multiply and transmit as efficiently as possible.
So usually, in this type of jumping between species, it happens that after a while the less aggressive variants are selected and are the ones left in the population.
However, here we have made a cut, we have said: "Confession."
That has saved a lot of people and prevented the virus from circulating as it normally would.
So because of that state of affairs, we now don 't know if the virus is going to evolve by selecting the lighter variants.
We have acted well, but we have stopped the natural evolutionary cycle of the virus.
So until we have data on the evolution of the virus, we can only speculate.
Maria Montoya
She is head of the Viral Immunology Group at the Center for Biological Research Margarita Salas (CSIC) and is a member of the board of the Spanish Society of Immunology, investigating SARS-CoV-2.
Question sent by email
Ada Luanda Garcia
We answer
is a weekly scientific consultancy, sponsored by the Dr. Antoni Esteve Foundation and the L'Oréal-Unesco programme 'For Women in Science', which answers readers' doubts about science and technology.
They are scientists and technologists, partners of AMIT (Association of Women Researchers and Technologists), who answer these questions.
Send your questions to
nosotrasrespondemo@gmail.com
or by Twitter # we're still responding.