Scientific front, good news.
Invermectin would substantially reduce mortality.
Coronavirus: Invermectin reduces mortality in patients with Covid-19
Invermectin administration to patients with Covid-19 is associated with lower mortality and duration of hospital stay.
This is the main result of a study conducted in 169 hospitals on three different continents.
DIRECTTO | Coronavirus Spain: latest news, last minute today
Mortality was 7.3% in the group of patients who required ventilation and were treated with this drug, while 21.3% in the control group died.
Overall mortality rates were lower in patients with Invermectin: 1.4 percent versus 8.5 percent.
The study cohort included 704 patients treated with Invermectin and 704 controls.
The objective of the research was to evaluate the association of the administration of this drug with Covid-19 survival.
According to researchers, the use of ivermectin "is associated with a higher probability of survival during Covid-19 disease, regardless of use with or in the presence of mechanical ventilation."
With these results, experts have stated that "Invermectin can now be added to the list of candidate treatments for Covid-19."
It is a drug initially synthesized and used as an antihelminthic, "of which it has been observed to have broader therapeutic properties."
Magnificent news, it is a very proven drug and has few side effects, if I don't remember badly discovered by a Japanese scientist and won the Nobel Prize for its discovery.
I bet that when dose protocols and so on are better adjusted, these figures will be further improved.
I submit, it is very important news in my opinion, with a single dose the number of viruses is very low... And it is a drug with far fewer side effects than chloroquines...
Would that put the numbers below the common flu?
Good for grandparents above and young people below, except you use a mask that you can die like the Chinese kids who used it while they were running in Physical Education.
It looks good, I hope it's true.
They were fucking saying this disease is parasitic, and you know how to use Invermectin?
It is an antiparasitic for animals!!!
In Japan, the Nobel Prize-winning university that discovered invermectin is about to launch a study.
Another English university is going to do the same.
With two or three studies confirming this, the bag will start to be used.
There's got to be a bell. We can't put the bells on the flight.
We would have to see what stock of the product is available and how long it takes to make it.
In August we could be on the beach so richly.
What is the inverse, putting pasta in a bag and palmar it?
We 're wasting time with remdesivir, a highly expensive experimental drug with uncertain side effects that only achieves marginal benefits for the sick.
The FDA's are sold to the pharmacy.
That's great news, to see if there's any luck.
I am already seeing Trumposo recommend suck-ups of Abamectin, cousin of Inveramectin, used in agriculture as a caressiccd and price push....
The good thing is that being a proven drug with known side effects does not have to wait for endless bureaucratic procedures to be used.
By the way, I think there remains the first n in the name of the substance.
The case is that in "medical writing" comes with n.
And more studies come with this product.