Why does one study say that hydroxychloroquine is dangerous but is used in Costa Rica?
Illustrative Image.
(CRHoy.com) A study was released this Friday that shows that chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine are not effective against the new coronavirus COVID-19, and that both drugs even increase the risk of death.
In response to this, Román Macaya, executive president of the Caja Costarricense de Seguro Social (CCSS), spoke about the use of these drugs in the country and the analyses that.........
"The studies that have been published worldwide are almost all with hospitalized patients, that is, patients who have already become complicated and even more so if they entered Intensive Care.
When they are at that level, the clinical approach is not to combat the virus, but the aftermath that has already triggered the virus.
For that kind of situation, maybe that drug doesn 't work and all the studies are related to that kind of scenario.
In Costa Rica, the strategy is very simple.
We try to identify cases early and then intervene so that then those cases of mild symptoms do not become severe, "he explained, assuring that this makes a big difference not only in the treatment but in the patient's reactions to the drug.
According to Macaya, the treatment of hydroxychloroquine, which has been used for malaria control and prevention for 65 years, is offered in the care of patients.
In Costa Rica, it is also used for diseases such as lupus or arthritis.
In many parts of the world, it is used prophylactically to prevent malaria transmission.
In the context of COVID-19 patients, the case is first analyzed to see if that person does not have comorbidities or other diseases that are contraindicated for the use of hydroxychloroquine, if they do, that patient is not given.
In cases where these contraindications do not exist, you are offered and monitored daily by 49 doctors, who are monitoring the day-to-day evolution of symptoms and possible side effects, "he added.
The surgeon said that in patients treated in Costa Rica, side effects are mainly gastrointestinal and not cardiac.
However, "these gastrointestinal effects such as diarrhea, are also typical symptoms of COVID-19 and could perfectly be associated with the disease and not the drug.
We are giving this (the drug) in an ambulatory context, a patient who has just been diagnosed, quite healthy, sometimes asymptomatic, which is a very different situation to a patient who is hospitalized, where it may already be too late to affect the spread of the virus, "he detailed.
"In the world, experience has been that hospitalisation of the total number of cases identified is around 15-20%.
In Costa Rica, hospitalization is about 9.5% of all cumulative cases.
Those who evolve into an intensive care unit in Costa Rica are 2% and globally around 5% or more.
There are reasons to continue studying this drug, especially in an early, newly diagnosed context, "he emphasized.
The Study
The authors of the study published this Friday in the scientific journal The Lancet stressed that both drugs had no effect on patients hospitalized with COVID-19.
Based on data from 96,000 patients in hundreds of hospitals, they concluded that administering them increased the risk of death.
To this end, they compared the results of four groups: those who were treated only with hydroxychloroquine, only with chloroquine, and two groups who received one of the two combined with antibiotics.
There was also a control group of patients who did not receive any of these treatments.
At the end of the study, 9% of these died.
Of those treated with only hydroxychloroquine and chloroquine, 18% and 16.4% died, respectively.
With antibiotics, 22.8% of those who received chloroquine and 23.8% of those who took hydroxychloroquine died.
Based on this data, the authors of the study estimated that patients with these drugs had a 45% greater risk of dying than those already suffering from some pathologies.
"Treatment with chloroquine or hydroxychloroquine does not benefit patients with COVID-19 ," said Mandeep Mehra, lead author of the study and executive director of the Brigham and Women's Hospital Center for Advanced Heart Disease in Boston.
"On the contrary, our finding suggests that it may be associated with a higher risk of serious heart problems and a higher risk of death," he said.
Several previous studies had already highlighted the absence of benefits of hydroxychloroquine and its possible risks.