Electronic cigarette vapor does not transmit coronavirus.
How is it possible for an agency such as the Ministry of Health to sound the alarm with claims that lack scientific support?
Professor Fabio Beatrice, interviewed by Anpvu, explains the recent fake news used also by the Spanish Ministry of Health in its note of 2 July [https: / / www.mscbs.gob.es / cabinet / notasPrensa.do? id = 4990], where it talks about "new risks" associated with covid-19.
In order to provide clarity and correct information, Professor Fabio Beatrice, director of the anti-smoking centre of the San Giovanni Bosco Hospital in Turin, one of the leading national experts in the field, speaks.
All published studies to date - comment - suggest that covid-19 is transmitted primarily through the respiratory drops (droplets) of an infected person at a short distance after a cough or sneeze or even simply by talking.
Infection through infected surfaces is rarer.
CAN THE VIRUS BE TRANSMITTED BY THE E-CI?
FALSE!
Professor Emeritus Neal Benowitz of the Center for Research and Education for Tobacco Control at the University of California in San Francisco has already spoken on the subject, "says Beatrice," explaining to us how electronic cigarettes pose no risk of spreading the virus unless one is positive and tossy when exhaling steam.
It should also be noted that what is released from electronic cigarettes is not saliva but steam, propylene glycol, glycerine and flavouring chemicals in which microscopic saliva particles may be present in such insignificant quantities that they cannot reasonably transport the virus.
A positive vaporizer to Covid-19 would not transport the virus unless it was at least two at the exact moment the vapor was released.
IS THE VIRUS UNIQUE IN THE ATMOSPHERIC PARTICS?
FALSE!
Recently, theoretical hypotheses, not confirmed by any experimental test, have been spread that assume that atmospheric particulate matter can be a carrier of the virus's spread through the air.
This hypothesis has no biological plausibility.
Indeed, while the ability of PM to transport biological particles (bacteria, spores, pollen, viruses, fungi, algae, plant fragments) is recognized, it seems unlikely that Coronaviruses can maintain intact their morphological characteristics and infectious properties after a more or less prolonged stay in the environment.
Temperature, drying, and UV rays damage the virus's envelope and thus its ability to infect.
The aspect is extremely delicate because the incorrect dissemination of fanciful hypotheses, not supported by scientific evidence, can be very misleading in communicating the risk to an already disoriented and alarmed population.
Transmission methods, as well as the prevention of infection, must be analysed and communicated with extreme scientific attention by the competent organs and institutions, because they are currently the most important aspect for the containment and control of the spread of infection. "
TRANSMISSION BY AIR AND BY "GOATS" ARE SYNONIMS?
FALSE!
As reported by the Ministry of Health, Covid-19 infection is a disease transmitted by droplets (Flugge droplets): droplets are saliva droplets (≥ 5 microns) transmission occurs through droplets that transport germs into the air when the source and receiver are close.
This happens, as reported by the Ministry of Health, when you sneeze, talk, cough.
Air transmission instead occurs with much smaller and more volatile particles (5 microns) than droplets. "
FAITH!
"In any case, the distance of 2 metres, the use of a mask and the custom of washing hands well after contact with the outside are confirmed as effective precautions and are exactly the indications adopted as a general public health instrument.
The Ministry of Health, on its institutional site, confirms that the virus is transmitted by coughing and sneezing or by the contact of the hands with the nose, eyes and mouth after touching infected surfaces.
In rare cases of fecal contamination, transmission with food is not proven.
Unfortunately, consumers of electronic cigarettes seem to be more targeted than traditional smokers and are often stigmatized. "
E-cig users are people who have made the decision to protect their health and, on average, are more careful in protecting the health of their families.
Our association is at the forefront in disseminating accurate scientific information in support of international policies that see alternative instruments as an opportunity to move to less harmful lifestyles. "