Some people are immune to COVID-19 without getting infected
Since the beginning of the pandemic, much has been said about immunity, and recent studies have found that some people are immune to COVD-19 without having previously contracted the virus.
People immune to COVID-19: is it possible?
One of the investigations that has found people who are immune to COVID-19 without having been infected before is one published in the magazine
Wetenschap
which was done by a group of scientists from Francis Crick Institute and University College London, UK.
The research was intended to determine whether a person after having COVID-19 generated antibodies against this infection, as well as to determine how long immunity lasts after having contracted the virus.
Scientists, as part of their analysis, also used serum samples provided by people who had not contracted COVID-19 and the surprise was that they found antibodies to SARS-CoV-2.
Moreover, this could be the reason why some people can fight SARS-CoV-2 better than others, as they already have antibodies that help them fight this new virus better.
Why are some people immune to COVID-19 without having contracted it?
Scientists have a theory to explain why some people are immune to COVID-19 without having previously been infected.
They estimate that exposure to other human coronaviruses, which cause a common cold, may lead to immunity to this new virus.
In this situation, scientists know it as
reactivity
Cross-reaction.
What is cross-immunity or cross-reactivity?
Cross-reactivity is the ability of the immune system to act with antibodies, previously generated against a virus, and confront another very similar virus.
For example, the response to a SARS-CoV1 infection can generate antibodies against the coronavirus (Hcov-OC43) that causes the common cold and, recently, it has been found that it could also do so for SARS-CoV-2.
Source: Pexels.
Cross-reaction antibodies in COVID-19
There are four types of common and seasonal coronavirus, which, to infect their host, use a protein called coronavirus.
According to George Kassiotis, the main author of the study, it could be responsible for providing the immune cross-reaction.
The peak protein is made up of two parts, one that adheres to the cells known as
And the other one, which is the one that allows the virus to enter the cells, called
S2 is similar in all types of coronavirus, including SARS-CoV-2, so this may be the reason why antibodies to common cold coronaviruses are acting as antibodies to SARS-CoV-2.
In general, they found that, of 302 samples, at least 16 had cross-reaction antibodies against COVID-19, i.e., 5.29% of the samples had some degree of pre-existing immunity to the new virus.
T cells and COVID-19 immunity
On the other hand, and according to a study published by the magazine
, in a sample of 68 healthy German adults, who had not contracted COVID-19, there were 35% of T cells in the blood, which were reactive to the virus.
T cells are part of the immune system and help protect the body from infections.
The reactivity of these cells makes scientists think that people who have them are immune to COVID-19, or at least have some degree of immunity because their organism already had a previous fight against a similar infection.
Researchers in this study also point to cross-reactivity as responsible for some people generating immunity to COVID-19.
However, Amesh Adalja, a senior researcher at Johns Hopkins University's Center for Health Security who did not participate in any of the studies mentioned above, says that these findings require more research.
In conclusion, Professor Kassiotis, author of the first study, asserts that this does not mean that people who recently had a common cold should think they are immune to COVID-19.
In fact, the medical and scientific community still has many questions about immunity and this new coronavirus.
It is still unknown how long it lasts and how exposure to another coronavirus can modify the immune response.
Meanwhile, there is a call to continue with measures to reduce contagion.