Water-diluted chlorine dioxide does not cure or prevent COVID-19 and is dangerous to health
A "protocol" for the consumption of chlorine dioxide against the new coronavirus has been circulating widely on social networks since early July.
However, there is no evidence that this substance, known as CDS and used as an industrial disinfectant, cures or prevents COVID-19.
Experts and health organizations, in turn, warn that repeated or high-dose consumption can cause health damage.
CDS Protocol for coronavirus
, titled an image showing a recipe for consuming chlorine dioxide that has been shared more than 26,000 times on Facebook (1, 2, 3) since July 8.
The publication suggests dissolving 10 milliliters of this substance in a liter of water and taking it every hour for 10 hours to prevent the disease.
Cash
acute contagion "
It is recommended to dissolve 8 milliliters in a liter of water and drink the preparation every 15 minutes.
Screenshot taken on August 20, 2020 from a Facebook post
Please share this publication, perhaps you do not care that you are completely healthy, but many people are suffering at the same time, to them if it will be of much use because they also long to regain their health and remain part of this society.
wrote several users.
The content was also sent for analysis to AFP Factual's WhatsApp.
However, chlorine dioxide, the subject of various messages circulating on social media presenting itself as a solution to COVID-19 and even other diseases, is not a drug: it is a disinfectant.
According to experts and health authorities, taking it once at a low dose may not cause harm, but consuming it repeatedly or at a high dose could lead to health damage.
Disinfectant, not drug
According to the U.S. Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Records (ATSDR), chlorine dioxide is a dangerous yellow or yellow-red-tone gas that decomposes rapidly in the air.
Because it is a dangerous gas, chlorine dioxide is always manufactured in the place where it is to be used,
aggregate.
From the Pan American Health Organization, they indicate that this substance is used as a low-dose disinfectant and that it reacts rapidly on human tissues.
"used as bleach in the manufacture of paper, in public water treatment plants and in the decontamination process of buildings";
, details OPS
Isidora Molina, biochemist at the University of Santiago, explained that this compound is a surface disinfectant that has biocidal capacity:
That means it eliminates viruses, bacteria and cells when we're in a home cleaning or pool setting.
For her part, Amalia Laborde, toxicologist and academic of the Department of Toxicology of the Faculty of Medicine of the University of the Republic (Uruguay), said that:
Chlorine dioxide is actually used in some countries as a disinfectant in extremely low concentrations to clean drinking water.
Laborde added that chlorine dioxide has no health record and is not accepted
"by no health agency.
No health ministry or agency has shown its effectiveness. "
, as a drug.
The efficacy of its precursors is based on theoretical data on chlorine as an antiseptic, but it has no therapeutic use.
said Laborde.
Like the toxicologist, Molina ruled out her pharmaceutical use:
In order for something to be medicinal, it must meet a number of parameters: it must be efficient, specific, have a certain half-life in the organism, it must be metabolisable, and the products resulting from this process must not be toxic.
No work or collection of works has approached this compound with that depth. "
Health officials prepare to take exams for residents and workers at an old-age asylum in Thessaloniki, Greece, August 19, 2020
For his part, Nelson Varela, a doctor in biomedical sciences and an academic in Medicine at the University of Chile, agreed that there is no study to prove that this substance has beneficial effects for any human disease.
In addition, he added that "
terribly irregular
"that a drug is prepared at home:
No one can prepare a drug at home.
For something to be a drug, it must go through clinical trials. "
Varela said that this disinfectant oxidizes organisms such as viruses and bacteria present on inanimate surfaces...........
say, objects "
But if chlorine dioxide is ingested,
"cells of my esophagus and stomach will die.
That will produce irritation when it is a low dose, or acute inflammation when the dose is high. "
With regard to the use of chlorine dioxide as a drug, the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has warned that they have no knowledge of ""........
no scientific evidence to support their safety or efficacy, and present significant risks;
[products with this substance, NDLR]
to patient health. "
In addition, the Pan American Health Organization (PAHO)
"does not recommend the use of products based on chlorine dioxide or sodium chlorite by oral or parenteral route in patients suspected or diagnosed with COVID-19, nor in any other case"
Last July, he reported that by ingesting chlorine dioxide,
Decreasing blood pressure may result in serious symptoms such as respiratory complications due to modification of the blood's ability to transport oxygen.
Dosage and Health Damage
The viral publication proposes to dissolve 10 millilitres of chlorine dioxide in one litre of water to prevent infection and 8 millilitres if already infected.
Laborde indicated that if someone only takes a low dose once,
probably not cause any discomfort
However, he indicated that repeated ingestion of chlorine dioxide will lead to irritation and inflammation of the digestive tract and stomach.
"The irritant effect of chlorine dioxide coming into contact with tissue can cause burning, digestive discomfort, diarrhea, even pictures of esophageal, gastric pain and even damage and perforation of the digestive tract"
, he said.
Molina indicated that to disinfect water this compound is used at a concentration of 0.3%, i.e. 0.3 millilitres per litre of water:
In the case of the Facebook news (...) is recommending drinking directly a solution that is 10 times more concentrated.
Biochemistry warned of the cumulative effect of these doses:
The more often this intake is repeated, the greater is the cumulative damage seen in the digestive tract tissue.
That's why a lot of people can take it one time and feel good, because the damage it's done is not enough to cause cell death.
, added Molina
Due to the popularity of recommendations to consume chlorine dioxide on the Internet, several health agencies have issued warnings, such as in the case of Peru, Colombia, Paraguay, Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, Ecuador and Uruguay.
As early as 2010, the French Medicines Agency published a warning on the toxicity of this same substance.
The same alerted the European Chemicals Agency.
AFP Factual has already published checks on chlorine dioxide, where other experts also warn about its consumption (1, 2, 3).
In short, there is no scientific evidence for the medical use of chlorine dioxide against COVID-19, or any other disease.
Experts, medical and scientific entities from various countries, and health authorities alert the population to the danger that their consumption poses to health.
* This verification was based on the scientific and official information on the new coronavirus available at the date of this publication.
EDIT 21 / 08: title correction