Chlorine dioxide does not cure covid-19 as recommended by Colombian model Natalia Paris
Archive image of Colombian model and entrepreneur Natalia Paris.
Michael Menendez - Archive.
On July 22, 2020, Dr. Federico Anze showed chlorine dioxide at the Bolivian Pharmacy in Cochabamba, Bolivia.
EFE / Jorge Abreco / Archive
What do we see?
Chlorine dioxide cures coronavirus, avoids the need for vaccination, and allows the use of personal protective items such as masks to be skipped, as Colombian model Natalia Paris has said.
Conclusion
there is scientific evidence that this chemical prevents coronavirus infection
In addition, authorities have not authorized its use as a treatment and have warned of its toxicity.
The statements of the renowned Colombian model Natalia Paris in which she claims to ingest chlorine dioxide "
Save you from the vacuum.
"against coronavirus have been made viral despite lack of any scientific support: the substance is not authorised as a treatment and can become toxic.
She also raised controversy in her country after recommending the use of the chemical to several users who claimed the few measures against covid-19 seen in a video she posted on her Instagram account where she is seen with a group of friends on a yacht while playing her music.
And all without covers?
, "questioned, for example, one of the celebrity's followers in the comments of the recording, taken according to the platform in Cartagena (north of the country) last January 24 and that it already has more than 200,000 plays.
Paris, one of the most recognized faces of fashion runways in Colombia, responded: "
we all take CLO DIOXIDE.
It's the cure that saves you from being vaccinated.
In response to other questions about biosecurity aboard the boat, the now 47-year-old Medellín-born businesswoman also advised her followers to supply the substance to their relatives and urged them to realize that it is already "
waking time
In Peru, many patients were saved.
Hundreds.
With chlorine dioxide
, "considered Paris without adding further evidence to their claims and in ensuring that with the compound"
No one is going to get sick of COVID..
Finally, the recommendations of the model and the discussion formed around the supposed effectiveness of the substance also reached other social networks, such as Twitter (
here
here
), where the Colombian name was trend for much of this Wednesday.
@NataliaParis _ should investigate it for promoting the toxic substance chlorine dioxide.
There is no right to this level of irresponsibility and ignorance!!!!
Chlorine dioxide does not cure coronavirus
However, the truth is that there is no scientific evidence that such a reddish-brown chemical compound in liquid state mitigates or prevents coronavirus infection, so authorities and regulatory bodies do not authorize its use and warn of possible toxic reactions.
Its use is proven as a surface disinfectant and, in addition, we do not have clinical trials in the country looking for safety and efficacy information or its supposed benefits for the cure of covid-19
, "said a video sent to Efe Sindy Pulgarín, spokesman for the National Institute for Drug and Food Surveillance (Invima) of Colombia.
The entity also recalled on Twitter that this compound may become toxic and that some of the adverse effects related to its consumption may be respiratory failure, changes in heart electrical activity, low blood pressure, acute liver failure, vomiting or severe diarrhea.
Some of the adverse effects related to chlorine dioxide consumption are:? Respiratory failure? Changes in heart electrical activity? Low blood pressure caused by dehydration - Invima (@invimacolombia) January 26, 2021
We 're a wake-up call to the community in general about the publicity that' s going on in social media about products that promise to cure the gout, because self-medicating or using products that don 't have robust information can have serious consequences.
, "added Invima's clinical research coordinator.
To date, according to the organism, chlorine dioxide has no health records in that country and therefore cannot be marketed as a therapeutic alternative to the virus.
These warnings have also been issued by international bodies, such as the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, which have been studying the compound for decades, especially in factories and the paper industry.
One
Occupational Health Guide on Chlorine Dioxide
, the American regulator warns that this substance was discovered in 1811. "
can affect the body if inhaled or if you have contact with the eyes and skin.
And it can also affect the organism if it 's ingested.
In fact, it warns that prologue exposure can cause chronic bronchitis and urges immediate medical attention once any of the symptoms described are detected.
The model cannot promote the compound
In response to the controversy generated by the recommendations of the model, the Superintendence of Industry and Trade (SIC) of his country ordered him this Wednesday to "
s
immediately
"publications related to the consumption of chlorine dioxide to treat or avoid coronavirus.
Paris must also "
remove comments inviting people to consume them to prevent contagion.
, "according to resolution 21-33907 of the regulatory body which, in the same way, orders you to send to you the information of the laboratory that processes the substance and whether it has a health record.
SIC, which relied on the alert issued by Invima, said in a statement that it also took into account the provisions of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) warning of health damage with its consumption.
# COMMUNICATED??
The @ sicsuper ORDENA at NATALIA PARIS immediately ceases publications related to "chlorine dioxide," you are also asked to attach information and are warned of the fines to which you are exposed for this conduct??????
Coronavirus still has no cure
Apart from these remedies, which besides ineffective are harmful, there is still no definitive cure for covid-19.
This is what the World Health Organization (WHO) says in its
: Although vaccines are already available to prevent infection, there are no specific drugs or treatments available to cure coronavirus, although clinical trials are underway.
Antibiotics are only effective against bacteria - not viruses - and home remedies can only be used to relieve only mild symptoms, says WHO.
The FDA also explains that there are no drugs specifically approved to treat the virus, although trials are under way to investigate whether drugs for other diseases could be effective.
Both organizations recall that the only way to protect oneself is based on indications that authorities have provided to date, such as maintaining social distance and repeated hand washing.
Sources
Instituto Nacional de Vigilancia de Medicamentos y Alimentos (Invima) de Colombia.
- Resolution 21-33907 of the Superintendencia de Industria y Comercio (SIC) of Colombia.
Twitter profile
of the Superintendent of Industry and Commerce of Colombia, Andrés Barreto.
Occupational Health Guide on Chlorine Dioxide
of the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
World Health Organization (WHO).