The days of coronavirus
Italy launches the largest social engineering experiment against a pandemic in modern times.
16 million people from the region of Lombardy and the neighbouring provinces cannot leave these areas by a decree approved at 2 a.m. Sunday morning by the Government after the plan leaked.
China has shown that the measure can be very effective, not without an obvious social price, because in a dictatorship there are no limits to what a government with hundreds of thousands of police officers can order.
We do not know how this can be done in a European country where citizens have rights.
For the time being, Sunday morning trains and planes continued to operate normally.
When the news leaked several hours earlier, people took advantage to leave the north as soon as possible.
"My cousins, my friends, all packed their bags and left last night," a resident in Venice told AFP.
The governor of the southern province of Puglia asked those who left from the north to the south to turn as soon as possible: "Get down to the first station, don't take an airplane, take the cars back.
Do not bring the epidemic of Lombardy, Veneto and Emilia to Puglia. "
The Italian government had few options.
"One of the best health systems in the world, that of Lombardy, is on the verge of collapse," said Saturday night Antonio Pesenti, head of the region's crisis unit.
It estimates that by the end of the month it will have 18,000 hospitalizations, of which around 3,000 will have to be in intensive care units................
If the population does not understand that they should stay home, the situation will be catastrophic.
The Chinese authorities announced on Saturday that there had been only 44 new cases and 27 deaths that day, the lowest number since the crisis began.
This weekend, the number of new cases in Italy rose from 5,883 to 7,375 and the number of deaths from 133 to 366.
Among the infected are the leader of the Democratic Party and the head of the regional government of Lazio.
They both live in the center of the country, not in the north.
General Salvatore Farina, head of the army, has also been.
The number of infected has exceeded a thousand.
The German Ministry of Health recommends that public events attended by more than a thousand people be cancelled.
The Austrian prime minister says more European countries will have to take similar steps to those in Italy.
Large private medical insurance companies in the US claim they are studying how to cover the cost of coronavirus tests, but say nothing about costly subsequent treatment for the sick.
About 18 million Americans had no health insurance in 2018.
South Korea has tested the coronavirus on 130,000 people.
The US has a clear deficit in the number of tests needed to detect infection in people.
They lost a time that now cannot be recovered.
You cannot recover six weeks of blindness, "said Jeremy Konyndyk, who led the Obama administration's response to Ebola.
Donald Trump visited the CDC headquarters in Atlanta on Friday.
All doctors say 'how can you know so much about this?'
Maybe I have a natural ability, maybe I should have done this instead of presenting myself to the president, "he told reporters wearing a red hat from his election campaign.
Three days ago, in a phone interview on Fox News, he commented that there was no problem going to work being infected.
Then he denied having said it.
The American CDC recommends that people over 60 years of age or with respiratory problems do not leave home as much as possible or attend public events with many people.
A cruise on the Nile with 150 tourists and crew is quarantined in Luxor with 45 infected.
Egypt announced on Sunday that it has suffered the first death from coronavirus.
The cruise 'Grand Princess' arrives on Monday at the North American port of Oakland (3,500 passengers with 22 affected).
Ben Carson, Secretary of Housing, said on Sunday that the plan for his landing is still under consideration.
"I don't need the number (of cases in the US) to be doubled by a ship that is not our fault," Trump said a few days ago.
Netanyahu announces that he will mobilize children and teenagers on holiday to disinfect with distant train and bus stations, because there are no cases of children affected by coronavirus (which is false).
A Republican congressman wore an old mask to mock concerns about coronavirus.
Three days later, a resident of his constituency died of the disease.
A Republican nominee for Congress for California has said that Bill Gates funded the Wuhan lab where he believes the disease was created and has also brought George Soros into history.
The vice-dean of one of the largest Greek universities launched the conspiracy that the coronavirus was manufactured in a laboratory and that the vaccine exists, but is kept secret.
A Saudi journalist (218,000 followers on Twitter) said that the coronavirus was funded by Qatar to boycott Saudi Arabia's economic program and the Emirate Expo.
An Australian family mistakenly broke the record for panic in the massive purchase of toilet paper.
He bought 48 boxes instead of 48 rolls.
It now has 2,304 rolls.
The British supermarket chain Tesco has begun to limit the sale of some products, such as pasta, so that people do not seize them.
Sequoia Capital predicts that coronavirus will be the 'black swan' of 2020 in international finance.
So far, the EU, the G7, and the ECB have not taken any steps to address the economic impact.
At the moment, they are "watching" events closely.