The world, divided over the use of hydroxychloroquine
A pharmaceutical technician shows a pill of hydroxychloroquine in a laboratory at Rock Canyon Pharmacy in Provo, Utah, United States, on May 20, 2020 afp _ tickers
Prohibited in some countries, encouraged in others.
The world is increasingly divided over the use of hydroxychloroquine to treat the new coronavirus, since the publication of a questionable study that considers the molecule ineffective and even harmful.
The study, published on May 22 in The Lancet, concluded that hydroxychloroquine (HCQ), a derivative of chloroquine to combat malaria, is not effective against covid-19 and increases the risk of death and cardiac arrhythmia.
The methodology of the study was, however, questioned by a part of the scientific community.
The methods of previous studies that highlighted their effectiveness had also been criticized.
- Prohibited in some countries...
The study led many countries to suspend the use of the molecule.
In France, where the controversial professor Didier Raoult is one of the main promoters of hydroxychloroquine, on 27 May he revoked the repeal that allowed hospitals to provide this treatment to serious patients from the end of March.
In other countries, such as Italy, Egypt, Tunisia, Colombia, Chile or El Salvador, they also suspended the use of the molecule to patients with covid-19.
Several nations had already stopped supplying HCQ to patients with covid-19 prior to the publication of the study.
Sweden, which used it to treat severe forms of the disease, abandoned its use in April after the European Medicines Agency advised only to administer it in clinical trials.
The German government also considers that "current studies do not allow for the current treatment of patients with covid-19 with chloroquine or hydroxychloroquine except in clinical trials."
-... encouraged in others -
Other countries, by contrast, extol the efficacy of the molecule and do not want to stop administering it.
This is the case in Brazil, Algeria, Morocco, Turkey, Thailand, Portugal, Kenya or Senegal, among others.
We have dealt with thousands of cases with this medicine very successfully so far.
And we have not noticed any undesirable effects, "Dr. Mohamed Bekkat, a member of the scientific committee responsible for the evolution of the pandemic in Algeria, told AFP.
According to him, the study published in The Lancet "induces confusion" as it "seems to affect serious cases for which hydroxychloroquine serves no purpose," while the molecule "is effective when used early."
India and Venezuela continue to use HCQ in a preventive manner.
Indian health authorities say they have not detected "any significant side effects."
Cuba, for its part, continues to use the molecule, but plans to revise its protocols to introduce new precautions.
In the United States, hydroxychloroquine can in principle only be administered to patients with covid-19 in hospital, but the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has warned since April of risks of cardiac arrhythmia.
A fervent advocate of the molecule, President Donald Trump said he was taking it daily in a preventive manner, though later, after the study was published in The Lancet, he said he stopped doing so.
The White House announced on Sunday that it is sending two million doses of hydroxychloroquine to Brazil to fight against coronavirus.
- Suspended clinical trials... -
The Lancet article led to the suspension of multiple clinical trials, starting with the division of hydroxychloroquine from the Solidarity (WHO) and Discovery (Europe) programs, which stopped including new patients.
The international Copcov trial supplying doses of HCQ to health workers in contact with coronavirus, two trials at the University Clinic in Tübingen (Germany) and five trials in Denmark were also interrupted.
-... and other maintained -
Other trials, however, continue, such as Recovery (UK).
Based on their own mortality data, their officials consider that "there is no compelling reason to suspend recruitment for security reasons."
Other trials conducted in Canada, Nigeria or Mexico also follow suit.
There is evidence that hydroxychloroquine has worked in many patients.
That's why we're going to continue, "said Professor Mojisola Adeyye, who runs Nigeria's drug agency.
In China, the birthplace of the pandemic, it is only used in clinical trials.
Its efficacy, which Wuhan University considered promising at first, has been questioned in a prestigious Shanghai hospital.
This article has been automatically imported from the old website to the new.
If you notice a viewing problem, we apologize and ask you to tell us: community-feedback @ swissinfo.ch