I'm proof that chloroquine cures
(ANSA) - BRASILIA, 13 AGO - The president, Jair Bolsonaro, today claimed to be the "living proof" that chloroquine cures Covid-19, and a minister said that Brazil is a "leader" country in people who have.
Bolsonaro contracted coronavirus last month when he took the drug and recommended it during several social media appearances while he remained confined in the official residence.
"I am the living proof that (hydroxychloroquine) gives results," he said during an event held today in Belém, the capital of the state of Pará, in the Amazon region.
"We are destined for this state more than 400,000 units of hydroxychloroquine," said Bolsonaro before the approval of the public who responded with applause and acclaimed him to the cry of "myth."
We know that more than 100,000 people died in Brazil (by coronavirus) and that, had they been treated from the beginning with that drug (hydrochloric acid), many of those deaths could have been avoided.
Bolsonaro advocates the use of this drug for lupus and malaria although it is not recommended by the World Health Organization (WHO), due to its side effects.
In one of his last live social media broadcasts last Thursday, Bolsonaro commented that he does not rule out the possibility of asking his American colleague, Donald Trump, to send a new batch of hydroxychloroquine tablets.
Last week, the WHO recommended that the Brazilian government provide more support to the population in the fight against coronavirus and recalled that hydroxychloroquine is not "a silver bullet" capable of curing the disease.
Brazil is the second most dead and infected country in the world with Covid-19, a disease that continues to cause an average of 1,000 deaths a day, which the WHO "worries" about.
Bolsonaro fired two health ministers, Henrique Mandetta in April, and Nelson Teich in May, when they expressed doubts about the prescription of hydroxychloroquine.
At the end of May, General Eduardo Pazuello, an advocate of hydroxychloroquine and its production in Army laboratories for distribution in the states, took over the head of Health.
Pazuello, who has no medical training, participated today in a video conference with WHO authorities.
"As of yesterday (August 12) Brazil counted 2,309,477 cases of people recovered from the Covid-19," the minister said during the videoconference.
"Brazil is among the world leaders in recovering patients, which is evidence of the government's success in the face of the pandemic (...) our goal has always been to save lives," the minister remarked to WHO officials.
Pazuello subsequently participated in a virtual hearing with Brazilian parliamentarians during which he acknowledged that the government sent less than 50% of federal resources to assist state governments in fighting the pandemic.