Treatment of vitamin C and zinc to combat Covid-19?
Vitamin C supplement
A new clinical study conducted in the United States and published in the magazine
, has concluded that medical treatment based on vitamin C (ascorbic acid) and zinc does not provide benefits in patients hospitalized with Covid-19.
The scientific and health community continues to work on finding new treatments to treat patients admitted by Covid-19 with the best guarantees.
Vitamin D (calciferol) has already been shown to provide promising results.
However, researchers from Ohio and Florida in the United States have conducted a study to test the potential positive effects of high doses of vitamin C in combination with zinc.
The goal was to know if this treatment would be able to reduce the duration of symptoms of acute respiratory syndrome presented by some patients affected by SARS Cov-2.
A total of 214 patients infected with Covid-19 and hospitalized participated in this study.
However, there were no substantial differences in the duration of symptoms caused by the virus.
Thus, the purpose of this research work was to determine whether high doses of vitamin C or zinc could reduce the duration of symptoms compared to the usual treatments being carried out so far at the hospital centers in the area.
They also tried the combination of both elements.
Clinical trial with vitamin C and zinc
This clinical trial, in which 214 people participated, ran from April 27 to October 14, 2020.
Now, in February 2021, researchers have published the results of that study, which have not been as hopeful as they initially expected.
Patient Covid-19
A group of these participating patients received increased doses of zinc gluconate and vitamin C (ascorbic acid) for 10 days.
He did the study for six months and with different patients hospitalized for Covid-19.
Finally, the clinical trial determined that patients diagnosed with Covid-19 who received treatment with high doses of zinc, high doses of vitamin C, or a combination of both, did not experience a significant decrease in symptom duration compared to other treatments used.
"Unfortunately, these two supplements did not live up to expectations," says Dr. Eric Michos, one of the authors of this research.
This is one of many clinical trials that get a negative outcome.
To provide effective or effective treatment for diseases, viruses, and infections, researchers have to collide with negative results countless times until they find and give evidence.
Once the evidence is found, further investigation will be needed to discuss realities.
The Importance of Nutrition
Numerous specialists in nutrition, endocrinology and biochemistry agree on the importance of food in relation to Covid-19.
The presence of certain nutrients such as vitamin D or vitamin C may have a protective effect against SARS-Cov-2 infection.
It is also less likely to cause a serious infection.
Some experts, such as Professor Adrián Gombart, urge the authorities to recommend to the population an increase in the consumption of vitamin D and vitamin C as a protective measure against Covid-19; as well as using mascara or hydroalcoholic gel.
Currently, different vitamin D-based treatments (calciferol) have been shown to provide beneficial results in Covid-19 patients.
It avoids death and reduces the severity of the symptoms of the virus.
However, vitamin C-based treatments have not yet been shown to have significant effects on this type of patient.
However, experts insist on increasing the consumption of these vitamins in the time of Covid-19.