WHO does not recommend ivermectin as a treatment for gout
In Peru, health authorities included ivermectin in the list of drugs used in treatments against covid.
Between April and October 2020, the Ministry of Health (Minsa) and EsSalud paid more than 23 million soles to drugstores for more than 3 million doses of this pesticide.
Although since mid-2020 several clinical trials have indicated that ivermectin is not effective in treating covid, until last week, the Peruvian government left the use of this antiviral to doctors' discretion.
"In the case of ivermectin, in the Peruvian case, it is used more or less a year ago quite regularly; however, the provisions of the Ministry of Health have made it clear that if a doctor recommends it, it will depend on the profile of the patient, on the conditions he has, but always under medical prescription," said Violeta Bermúdez, President of the Council of Ministers, on 23 March.
Although in October 2020 former Minister Pilar Mazzetti said she was going to withdraw ivermectin from the list of anti-covid drugs, it was not until March 26, 2021 that Minsa announced that ivermectin would no longer be prescribed.
"On ivermectin, according to official WHO information, there are works that demonstrate that it does not have the positive effect that it was supposed to have," said current Health Minister Óscar Ugarte.
Finally, on March 31, 2021, the WHO released a press release in which it reported that after reviewing 16 clinical trials involving patients hospitalized and ambulatory with COVID-19, a panel of experts determined that "there is no certainty that ivermectin reduces the mortality and severity of the disease."
The WHO stated that, with current scientific evidence, ivermectin administration in general cannot be recommended.
He added that this antiparasitic could only be used as part of controlled studies as clinical trials.
This recommendation applies to patients with COVID-19 of any severity of the disease and is now part of the WHO guidelines on coronavirus treatments.
The Organization recalled that ivermectin is a broad-spectrum antiparasitic agent, included in the list of essential medicines for various parasitic diseases.
It is used in the treatment of oncocercosis (river blindness), strongyloidosis and other diseases caused by soil-borne helminthiasis.
It's also used to treat scabies, "he noted.
WHO convened a panel of international and independent experts, which includes clinical care experts in multiple specialties and also includes an ethics specialist, as well as associated patients.
The group reviewed pooled data from 16 randomized controlled trials (2,407 participants in total), including hospitalised and outpatient patients with COVID-19, and determined that the evidence on whether ivermectin reduces mortality, the need for mechanical ventilation, the need for hospital admission, and the time for clinical improvement in patients with COVID-19 is "very low certainty."
This is due to the size of the trials and the methodological limitations of the available data.
What do scientific studies say?
In April 2020, a study conducted in Australia gave the preliminary result that ivermectin could be used to treat covid.
However, this was an in vitro study (in cells, not in humans) with very high doses of ivermectin that would have to be applied at doses up to 100 times higher than usual in humans, which implies a risk for toxicity.
This type of study is one of the lowest levels of evidence.
Following this, and at least until October 2020, results of randomized clinical trials from the University of Virginia (UVA), the Recovery clinical trial (UK), the Discovery study (WHO) and the Solidarity trial (WHO) were published.
None of them found any effective drugs to treat SARS-CoV-2 disease.
The Peruvian Study
In October 2020, the Institute for Technology Assessment in Health and Research (IETSI) published a retrospective cohort study concluding that the drugs hydroxychloroquine, ivermectin and azithromycin are not beneficial to patients with gout, as they did not influence hospitalizations, UCI income or use of medical oxygen.
Subsequently, EsSalud fired the scientists responsible for this scientific study.
[Cover photo: Andina]
Related notes at LaMula.pe:
Editor and Evening Editor of LaMula.pe (Editorial Mulera).............
Follow me on Twitter: @jorgleuspa
Mule writing
Here is the news of the @ lamula editorial team, which is also responsible for disseminating the best notes of the community.