Drinking hot water doesn't prevent COVID and it's not the advice of businessman Ken Frazier
COVID's rebranding and the rise in contagion in several areas have also caused misinformation to be shared again in social networks, although it had already been verified.
In this case, the idea that drinking very hot water serves to "eradicate the throat virus" was revived and that steam inhalation is a good measure to prevent and treat COVID-19.
But in addition, in this new edition, they confirmed that these recommendations were made by Ken Frazier, executive director of the pharmaceutical company Merck Co.
This is not only false, it is also dangerous.
Drinking very hot water can damage our throat and make it prone to infections.
Ken Frazier is not the author of the recommendations
The text with false information has been replicated hundreds of times on Facebook and Twitter.
He claims that Ken Frazier recommended hot water and herbal vaporization during "an interview with Professor Tsedal Neeley of Harvard Business School."
In some publications, the text ends with "with information from Harvard Business School, Barron's."
We found a note entitled: "Merck CEO Ken Frazier talks about a COVID cure, racism and why leaders should preach."
In the body of the note we find nothing referring to the supposed recommendations that involve drinking hot water with lemon and making steam inhalations several times a day.
Neither the video nor the transcript of the interview read anything similar.
Free journalism needs its readers.
Let 's keep telling the stories that matter.
Dyr
To be sure, AFP investigators asked Patrick Ryan of Merck Co. 's corporate communication area, who told them it was "inevitably disinformation" claimed on social media.
According to AFP verification, he also denied that Frazier had stated in another interview or activity what the publications indicated.
Hot water does not prevent or cure COVID-19
The text falsely attributed to Ken Frazier says that "hot water that is drunk either with lemon or with guacamole branches, is very good to prevent and help eradicate the throat virus."
However, Dr. Michel Fernando Martínez, leader of the TecSalud Epidemiological Surveillance Unit, commented on
Political animal
that drinking hot water would be counter-productive for prevention, as "their consumption leads to injury to oral mucosa and an injured oral mucosa is more prone to infection."
The text with false information recommends "inhale steam either from eucalyptus, rosemary, laurel, malva or other branches, or simply from menthol or vaporub."
However, scientific studies indicate that there is no evidence that waxes, inhalations, or vaporizations are useful for treating lung or respiratory diseases.
For example, this article published in the Journal of Anales of Pediatrics in 2015 says that "hot water waxes are still used as treatment for trivial respiratory processes, despite the risk of causing burns and not having been proven effective."
Supposedly, the text's claims with false information are based on the idea that the virus disables with high temperatures.
But as the infector Uri Torruco has already explained to us, the studies that show that the virus is damaged at a certain temperature are in vitro studies.
That is, they were not made in people, because subjecting a patient to those temperatures is dangerous.
The World Health Organization also clarified that "exposure to the sun or temperatures above 25 degrees does not prevent COVID."
Therefore, neither the executive of the pharmaceutical company Merck Co recommended drinking hot water and making vaporizations to stop COVID-19 infections, nor are they effective remedies to treat or prevent COVID-19.
What we do in Political Animal requires professional journalists, teamwork, dialogue with readers and something very important: independence.
You can help us follow.
I'm part of the team.
Subscribe to Political Animal, receive benefits and support free journalism.
YoSoyAnimal