A study states that COVID-19 emerged in China in October 2019, two months before the first cases were diagnosed.
A scientific study tracked the origins of SARS-CoV-2 as of October 2019 (Shutterstock)
The first case of a person infected with SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes the disease by COVID-19 and generated the pandemic, may have occurred in Hubei Province, China, on October 7, 2019, two months before the first officially recorded infections.
In mid-December, two months later, the first clinical pictures of patients suffering from a strange pneumonia were described in the now famous wet animal market in Wuhan.
It is a new analysis of the spread of the virus, in which its "molecular clock" revealed that it was probably already established in Asia at this point and had been circulating in Hubei at low levels of spread prior to what was thought.
Researchers traced the origins of SARS-CoV-2 in Hubei Province, China (REUTERS / Aly Song)
But, due to the new symptoms of the then-flaming coronavirus and the initially small number of infections, it was difficult to identify the pathogen.
Thus, the virus only caught the attention of the authorities when in December a group of mysterious symptoms related to the shellfish market in Huanan was observed.
This led to the now discredited theory that the wet market, where a wide variety of live and dead animals are sold, was where the pandemic originated.
Dr. Jonathan Pekar, a microbiologist at the University of California, San Diego, conducted a mathematical study to determine when and where it actually arose.
The zero case may have occurred in the Chinese province of Hubei on October 7, 2019, scientists (REUTERS) calculated
Pekar and his team analyzed 583 early Hubei virus samples to find their last common ancestor from which they all descended.
They found that they dated back to about December 9.
But before this date, Chinese media had already reported an unusual condition similar to pneumonia.
Researchers believe that the only logical explanation is that the first form of the virus that jumped from an animal to a human was a weak strain that quickly became extinct.
But before it disappeared, scientists speculate that it mutated to become more powerful and this variant then spread throughout Wuhan and later around the world.
"In our main analysis, we assume that November 17 represents the first documented case of COVID-19," the researchers write in their study, published in the prestigious scientific journal
Wetenschap
SARS-CoV-2 mutated to become more powerful and this variant then spread to Wuhan and later around the world (REUTERS)
In this context, they carried out a more detailed analysis under this assumption using a computer model.
Considering a delay in the transmission, detection and development of symptoms, the first case of COVID-19 infection occurred in Hubei in October, researchers estimate.
The authors of the paper, Jonathan Pekar, Michael Worobey, Niema Moshiri, Konrad Scheffler, and Joel Wertheim, struggled to identify a geographic location for the virus's origin, but say that if the initial strain, which was weaker than the Wuhan variant and all subsequent mutations, arose in a rural location, it would have had to migrate to an urban location in order to survive.
"The lack of COVID-19 reports in other parts of China in November and early December suggests that Hubei Province is the place where the person-to-person transmission chains were established," the researchers described.
They also added that their findings do not shed light on whether the first case contracted the virus directly from bats or through an intermediate host, but "further away" the first case from the Huanan wholesale seafood market.
HAS ADOPTED THIS DECISION: