These are the five reasons why coronavirus would be losing strength.
The SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus is losing its strength for a variety of reasons, as is assured by one sector of science.
It even ensures that the end of the crisis will be closer than expected, at least in Europe, where it struck earlier than in Latin America.
"When experts point out that coronavirus may be weakening, they do not cling as a single argument to a numerical decline in infections, but to the fact that the clinical pictures generated in recent outbreaks would be lighter than those recorded in the most intense moments of the pandemic," says a research published by the World Health Organization (WHO).
and elaborated by Sara Lumbreras, Joaquín Fernández-Crehuet Navajas and Luis Oviedo Torró.
They acknowledge that there is no conclusive evidence to suggest that this coronavirus is weakening, but mention five factors that could influence this.
The apparent weakening could be due to one of them or the conjunction of all, they mention.
These are the five causes that point out:
1.- Mild Peppers
SARS-CoV-2 is stronger than influenza but has had mutations, some that make it more contagious, and others that can weaken it.
We must remember that both SARS and MERS underwent mutations that made them less aggressive.
It is key to continue to do sequencing studies that can confirm what evolution the virus is experiencing, "the research team warns.
2.- Changes in the environment
The temperature would impact the strength of the virus and even ultraviolet radiation (one of the sources is the Sun).
"But these claims are not supported by the evidence, but rather by extracted comparisons of the behavior of other coronaviruses," the publication asserts.
3.- He first affected the weakest
It is believed that the most vulnerable people were the first to be affected.
By passing through the most difficult times of the pandemic, with large numbers of cases, the virus finds patients with greater resistance.
Meanwhile, people with risky diseases are more careful.
In the case of Spain, the research states: "If we had data on the demographics of recent outbreaks, we could study whether these are disproportionately affecting young people or whether outbreaks in homes, hospitals or asylums remain important.
It is reasonable to think that this is a key factor in the severity of the rebirths we are experiencing. "
4.- We know the covid better
One of the characteristics of this coronavirus, which makes it so dangerous, is that it was new and unknown.
Months after its arrival, the scientific community has identified effective treatments to reduce its impact.
"For example, we know that in the early stages of the epidemic many cases did not receive hospital care until the disease had progressed to a critical stage," the publication mentions.
5.- Distance is key
We have learned that physical estrangement is key to reducing the risk of infection, along with continuous hand washing and the use of masks.
Research is needed to clarify the possible weakening, but the publication of data related to the severity of the cases emerging in the epidemic is even more urgent: we need not only up-to-date and localized data on cases and deaths, but also on hospitalizations or incomes in intensive care areas.
Only then will we be able to clearly determine our next step in the fight against the pandemic, "the research added.
(II)