So here 's colchicine, the gout drug that can reduce coronavirus mortality.
Photo: eE.
Researchers at the Montreal Cardiac Institute reported that a drug used against gout shows efficacy in treating coronavirus patients by reducing mortality by 44% and hospitalizations by 25% after analyzing the results of a study of 4,488 patients worldwide.
The drug, called colchicine or colchicine, is a drug that, in addition to fighting gout, can be used against arthritis and cirrhosis, and has demonstrated its ability to reduce cytokine levels and the activation of macrophages, neutrophils, and inflammation.
According to researchers at the Montreal Cardiac Institute (MHI), his clinical study "has shown that colchicine use was associated with statistically significant reductions in the risk of death and hospitalization compared to placebo."
In those patients with a proven diagnosis of covid-19, colchicine reduced hospitalizations by 25%, mechanical ventilation by 50%, and deaths by 44%.
This great scientific discovery makes colchicine the first oral drug in the world that can be used to treat non-hospitalized patients with covid-19, "the authors added.
Dr. Jean-Claude Tardif, director of the MHI Research Center and principal investigator of the study, stated in a statement that "our study shows the efficacy of colchicine treatment in preventing 'cytokine storm' and reducing complications associated with covid-19."
The study, called Colcorona, was conducted with 4,488 patients from Canada, the US, Europe, South America and South Africa, and used a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, non-contact system designed to determine whether colchicine "could reduce the risk of serious complications associated with covid-19."
The researchers added that it is the largest study in the world that has tested a drug administered orally to patients with covid-19 who have not been hospitalized.
For the authors, "treating patients at risk of complications with colchicine as soon as the diagnosis of covid-19 is confirmed by a PRC test reduces the risk of developing a serious form of the disease and consequently reduces the number of hospitalizations," so prescribing this drug "could alleviate the problems of hospital congestion and reduce health costs."