leaked documents from the World Bank indicate that the Covid was created in 2018 in laboratories and will last until 2025.
leaked reports from the World Bank indicate that the spread of Covid is part of a plan designed in 2018 that will last until 2025.
According to the same sources, the World Bank predicted the massive purchase of tests in 2018, which would reinforce the arguments of those who argue that the pandemic arose deliberately.
The virus was reported to have emerged from the mixing and selection of viral genes from bats and pigs.
Between 2016 and 2017, a coronavirus was identified in horseshoe bats and confirmed to be responsible for the death of about 25,000 milks in Asia, presumably used as guinea pigs.
Between 2016 and 2017, thousands of newborn pigs on numerous farms in southern Guangdong province began to die mysteriously, suffering symptoms such as diarrhea and vomiting.
Researchers initially suspected that the culprit was the swine epidemic diarrhea virus (PEDV), but new tests, based on genetic analysis, allowed them to prove that it was SADS, or acute swine diarrhea syndrome.
When we put this germ under the microscope, we confirmed that it was a new virus from the same family of PEDV and SARS.
Bats are recognized as depositories of a large number of pathogens, so we started tracking the virus in bat samples, "said Shi Zhengli, a virologist at the Wuhan Institute of Virology, subordinate to the Chinese Academy of Sciences.
According to Shi, researchers collected 591 bat samples, mostly from the horseshoe family, between 2013 and 2016.
Of these, 10% were positive.
The research was jointly developed by scientists from China, Singapore and the United States, and the findings were published last week in the prestigious journal Nature.
"The study underlines the importance of identifying the diversity and distribution of coronaviruses in bats to mitigate future outbreaks that could threaten livestock, public health and economic growth," according to researchers.
Experts were "relieved" to see that the virus is not transmissible to humans, after examining workers who had come into contact with infected pigs in Guangdong.
Many infectious diseases in humans, such as SARS, are of animal origin.
It is possible that in the future SADS will be transmitted from bats to domestic animals and then from these to humans, "warned Ma Jingyun, a researcher at the Agricultural University of Southern China, and one of the co-authors of the research paper.
The work was a collaboration between scientists from EcoHealth Alliance, Duke-NUS Medical School, Wuhan Institute of Virology and other organizations, and was funded by the National Institute of Allergies and Infectious Diseases, a component of the National Institutes of Health.
Therefore, the news is no longer so much the conspiracy itself, but that "someone" has leaked these documents so that there is no doubt that we are facing a man-made pandemic, thus confirming the arguments defended by the French military just a few days ago.