France says ibuprofen can aggravate coronavirus.
Experts say more evidence is needed
1: 57.
(CNN) - France's Ministry of Health has noted that popular anti-inflammatory analgesics such as ibuprofen could worsen the effects of coronavirus, raising doubts about which over-the-counter drugs people should take to treat disease symptoms.
Health Minister Olivier Veran, who is also a neurologist, tweeted on Saturday that "taking anti-inflammatory drugs (ibuprofen, cortisone...) could be an aggravating factor of infection.
If you have a fever, take paracetamol.
If you are already taking anti-inflammatory drugs or have doubts, talk to your doctor. "
His suggestion was criticized by some health experts as there is no evidence to show a link between ibuprofen and the negative effects on coronavirus.
Veran's recommendation was made public on the same day that the French government reported that "serious adverse effects" related to the use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) (the family of drugs to which ibuprofen belongs) have been identified "in patients affected by COVID-19, in potential or confirmed cases."
"We repeated that the treatment of fever or pain related to COVID-19 or any other respiratory viral disease should be paracetamol," added the new ministry guidelines.
Paracetamol is commonly referred to in the US as acetaminophen.
Veran's tweet was widely shared on social media, especially in France, and the advice has raised doubts about the impact of ibuprofen on treating the virus.
CNN contacted the French Ministry of Health for comments.
"Deeply concerned about this bold statement," said Muge Cevik, a researcher with the Division of Infection and Global Health at St. Louis University, on Twitter.
There is no scientific evidence, I know, that ibuprofen (has worse consequences) with #COVID19.
But other experts say that Veran's advice is consistent with the general guidelines given by some countries on anti-inflammatory analgesics such as ibuprofen, although its association with coronavirus is unclear.
There is good reason to avoid ibuprofen, as it can exacerbate acute kidney damage caused by any serious illness, including COVID-19.
There is still no other widely accepted reason to avoid it by COVID-19, "said Rupert Beale, leader of the Cell Biology of Infection group at the Francis Crick Institute in the UK, in a statement to the UK's Science Media Center.
Paracetamol, "preferable" to ibuprofen
Ibuprofen, a NSAID, is often used to treat fever, one of the most common symptoms of the virus.
Most deaths from COVID-19 have occurred among older people with pre-existing health problems, such as cardiovascular diseases.
We already know that NSAIDs should be prescribed with caution to people with underlying health problems, "said Charlotte Warren-Gash, Associate Professor of Epidemiology at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine.
France already has stricter rules than many other countries regarding the sale of analgesics, and earlier this year it removed drugs such as paracetamol and ibuprofen from the list of products that can be sold without a prescription.
The UK National Institute of Excellence in Health and Medical Care recommends prescribing the lowest dose of ibuprofen for as short a time as possible to patients with underlying conditions to prevent side effects, including cardiovascular or renal problems.
The National Health Service recommends using ibuprofen instead of paracetamol for inflammatory problems such as arthritis, but warns that it should not be taken for long periods.
"In the case of COVID-19, the effects of specific NSAIDs among people with different underlying health conditions should be investigated, depending on the severity of the infection," added Warren-Gash.
"Meanwhile, to treat symptoms such as fever and throat pain, it seems sensible to use paracetamol as a first option," he said.
Tom Wingfield, a professor and medical consultant at the Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine, also advised that "paracetamol is generally preferred" to ibuprofen in most cases.
According to Wingfield, paracetamol is less likely to cause side effects than ibuprofen, which causes some people stomach and kidney irritation.
"From the French minister's comments, it is not clear whether the advice is a generic 'good practice' guide or is specifically related to data arising from COVID-19 cases, but this could be clarified over time," he said.
The coronavirus pandemic has led to strong restrictions in France and throughout Europe.
The country announced on Saturday that it would close restaurants, cafes, cinemas and clubs in an attempt to increase social estrangement.
(With information from Barbara Wojazer, CNN)