ivermectin is not effective against covid-19: Merck
The pharmaceutical company Merck, the owner and creator of ivermectin, said this Friday that there is no evidence of the efficacy of this medicine to treat people infected with covid-19.
After a study to carefully examine the available and emerging findings of ivermectin for the treatment of coronavirus, Merck scientists noted that "there is no scientific basis for a possible therapeutic effect."
to take into account the statement of @ Merck, the company that discovered ivermectin: There is no significant evidence of clinical activity or clinical efficacy in patients with COVID-19.
They also indicated that there is a worrying lack of security data in most studies.
"We do not believe that the available data support the safety and efficacy of ivermectin beyond the doses and populations indicated in the prescription information approved by the regulatory agency," said the pharmacist.
In this regard, the World Health Organization (WHO) and the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) have also discouraged the use of ivermectin for the treatment of covid-19 and warn of side effects.
What's it for?
ivermectin is a drug derived from an isolated substance in the early 1970s, from soil samples in Japan, and has the curious activity of being very active against two types of parasites, which affect both the inside and the outside of the organism.
ivermectin is very effective against external parasites such as lice and mites that cause scabies.
Also against round worms, including Ascaris, very common in children and adults living in poor hygiene conditions.
It is also effective for filariasis and onchoceras, which cause elephantiasis and onchocercosis, two very debilitating diseases common to millions of people living in Africa's poorest regions.
A presentation of ivermectin in a pharmacy in Barranquilla.
In which countries is its use approved?
ivermectin, whose original use is against parasites in animals and people, has been administered to patients with covid-19 in many countries for months and in the hospital setting.
Some of those countries that recommend use to treat covid-19 are Brazil, Venezuela, Mexico, Honduras, Nicaragua, Guatemala, El Salvador, Peru and Bolivia.
In several countries, people self-medicate with this drug, believing it can prevent coronavirus infection.
Convert to your news source