Is coronavirus a living being?
Security forces disinfecting a building.
Changes in health measures and the disparity in criteria seem to make it clear that much of the new SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus is unknown.
For example, the scientific community has no single answer as to whether it is alive.
Some consider this RNA and protein 'robot' not a living being, because it can only thrive with cells like ours, but others think it is.
The debate is still open, "the Sinc Agency explains on its website.
Viruses are made of proteins, and contain within them genetic material to produce those same proteins to infect.
In fact, the debate about the vitality of the coronavirus family dates back decades.
Coronaviruses are tiny, ranging from 60 to 140 nanometers in diameter.
They are formed from an RNA chain where their genes are and a lipid cover with proteins that allow them to adhere to human cells.
"For me viruses are living things," says virologist and immunologist Margarita del Val, researcher at the Severo Ochoa Molecular Biology Centre (CBMSO, CSIC-UAM mixed centre), in a statement to the Sinc Agency.
"Of course, viruses are obligate parasites," he continues, "but there are many more examples of this in the tree of life.
We ourselves are obligate symbiote organisms (though not parasites), as without the microbiota we have in our organs we would probably not be viable as a species. "
On the other hand, Joaquín Ruiz, a biologist specializing in genetics, microbiology and virology, has stated in Damned Science that "if we take the requirement 'can reproduce autonomously' as indispensable to consider something as' live ', then a virus (which needs a host cell to replicate genetic material and make proteins) is not."
He adds that "its metabolism is dependent on the host, it has no one of its own.
When a virus is not infecting a cell it is like an inert particle, "Ruiz points out.
Del Val, for his part, also notes that coronaviruses "multiply by making copies of themselves, mutate moderately without compromising their viability, and as a result, respond to the strong selective conditions of their environment, where the most fit survive," Sinc explains.
"Viruses do not age or die as individuals: if they are inactivated it is what we would call an accident, but that is not a characteristic inherent in life," Del Val explains.
Other unicellular beings that divide by mating also do not die, and even some marine species (such as certain jellyfish) are immortal and are only cut short by their predators.
Many viruses adapt to their host.
"Herpes viruses (such as the labials, which may be inactive for years and only be revived when a problem arises in the body) are masters in this," says the researcher.............