The coronavirus began circulating in China in October 2019, says a study
Coronavirus emerged in China 'as early as October 2019', two months BEFORE the first cases diagnosed, says a study
Researchers traced the origins of SARS-CoV-2 in Hubei Province, China
Found the common genetic ancestor of 583 cases goes back to December 9
But researchers say this is from the coronavirus strain that first spread rapidly.
The first documented case of a weaker version probably occurred on November 17.
Given a delay in reporting, it is likely that this person became infected on 4 November.
But researchers say this figure could be reliable as of October 7.
The first case of a human infected with SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, may have occurred in the Chinese province of Hubei on October 7, 2019.
Only in mid-December, two months later, the first cases in Wuhan were officially described in the now notorious Huanan wet market.
A new analysis of the virus's spread and its' molecular clock 'revealed that it was probably already established in Wuhan at this point and had been circulating in Hubei at low levels by early November 2019, and possibly by mid-October.
Scroll down to see the video
But due to the new symptoms of Covid-19 and an initially small number of infections, it was difficult to identify the pathogen.
As a result, the virus only caught the attention of the authorities when a group of mysterious symptoms related to the Huanan seafood market were observed in December.
This led to the now discredited theory that the wet market, where a wide variety of live and dead animals are sold, was where the pandemic originated.
Dr. Jonathan Pekar of the University of California, San Diego conducted a mathematical study to determine when and where it actually arose.
In our main analysis, we assume that November 17 [thick dotted line] represents the first documented case of Covid-19 ', the researchers write in their study, published in Science.
They carried out a more detailed analysis under this assumption.
Researchers believe the date of November 17 [dashed line] was the first infection of the SARS-CoV-2 strain to spread around the world.
But it is likely that a weaker version existed in advance, and this is the one that first jumped from animals to humans.
They believe this transspecific infection could have occurred as early as October 7 (start of rosy slope).
Wuhan laboratory theory is ABANDONED by the WHO / Beijing joint team
The theory that Covid-19 leaked from a Wuhan laboratory has been abandoned by WHO experts investigating the origins of the pandemic, says a Chinese scientist.
The WHO-Beijing joint panel is due to issue its politically sensitive report next week, following a visit to Wuhan in January and February, which raised more questions about China's transparency.............
The WHO says the report is not yet finished, but Liang Wannian, the head of the Chinese wing of the panel, told state media that the lab leak theory had been deemed "extremely unlikely" and would not be investigated further.
"Future virus origin tracking missions will no longer focus on this area unless there is further evidence," Liang said.
He added that the findings were the 'consensus' of WHO and Chinese scientists, denying that the report was delayed due to disagreements among experts.
The long-awaited report must examine a variety of theories about how the virus first jumped from animals to humans, with bats among the main suspects.
But Washington and others have promoted theories that the outbreak was not caused by nature but by a leak or accident at a secret virology laboratory in Wuhan.
His team analyzed 583 samples of early Hubei viruses to find their last common ancestor from which they all descended.
They found that they dated back to about December 9.
But the Chinese media reported an unusual condition similar to pneumonia before this date.
As a result, researchers say the only logical explanation is that the first form of the virus that jumped from an animal to a human was a weak strain that quickly became extinct.
But before it disappeared, researchers speculate that it mutated to become more powerful and this variant then spread throughout Wuhan and later around the world.
"In our main analysis, we assume that November 17 represents the first documented case of Covid-19," the researchers write in their study, published in Science.
They carried out a more detailed analysis under this assumption using a computer model.
Considering a delay in the transmission, detection, and development of symptoms, the first case of Covid-19 infection occurred in Hubei on or around 4 November 2019, researchers estimate.
However, this figure could be as early as October 7, researchers add.
Researchers struggled to identify a geographic location for the virus's origin, but say that if the initial strain, which was weaker than the Wuhan variant and all subsequent mutations, arose in a rural location, it would have had to migrate to an urban location to survive.
"The lack of Covid-19 reports in other parts of China in November and early December suggests that Hubei Province is the place where the person-to-person transmission chains were established," researchers write.
Researchers add that their findings do not shed light on whether the first case contracted the virus directly from bats or through an intermediate host, but "further away" the first case from Huanan's wholesale seafood market.
Advertising notice