Madagascar herbal tea that (say) cures coronavirus
In addition to the traditional medicine, Covid-Organics (CVO), which is already marketed in the form of herbal tea, a new injectable solution of the same product is also being developed that is currently in clinical trials in Madagascar.
The country's president, Andry Rajoelina, indicated on Monday that his government was already collaborating with foreign doctors and researchers on the subject, seeking alternative research possibilities, but keeping track of the Artemisia plant, the main component of CVO.
A pharmaceutical plant will be established within a month to increase Covid Organics production capacity.
It will be administered in other ways, such as injections, "Rajoelina explained on Twitter.
Last month, Rajoelina officially launched CVO, a herbal medicine that he claimed can prevent and cure patients suffering from coronavirus.
The drug was developed by the Malagasy Institute for Applied Research.
However, the World Health Organization (WHO) warned against any self-medication and said it has not recommended any medication as a cure for COVID-19.
Known under the scientific name Artemesia Annua, the Chinese-origin plant was first imported to Madagascar in the 1970s to treat malaria..
According to Rajoelina, Madagascar produces 3,000 tons of Artemisia each year.
Do not be under any illusions, because they have not yet authorized the export...... if it could be assured that our Minister of Health would have already placed all the expired stock of the said beverage on him.
https: / / www.aa.com.tr / es / mundo / madag... virus / 1830164
He reminded me of the black guy who distributes cards against the evil of love, and fixes computers with his mind.
He reminded me of the black guy who distributes cards against the evil of love, and fixes computers with his mind.
I don't trust myself until Andy and John, the owners of Messenger, say so.
Hilo sponsored by the Mamadou Abeba Chaman
Other:
Originally written by untouchable I until Andy and John, the owners of Messenger, say so, do not trust me....
Andy and John don't know, but the army starts handing them the miracle potion... if Darwin comes?
https: / / deposit.com / off-side / coronavir... -di/
A shit that heals something that doesn't exist, all right...
good with head of Dakar (Senegal) that is in Africa news of the islands of Madagascar??
Someone must have made a pilgrimage in time of geography.
In a month, a pharmaceutical factory. Did aliens invade us?
It's best to get your wolverine out early in the day.
I work for several years (with that plural) in Madagascar, Senegal, Ivory Coast, Belen, Cape Verde Unfortunately several countries more and I find this news to believe me go greetings