FDA announces emergency authorization for convalescent plasma in treatment with covid-19
10: 00
(CNN) - The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) issued an emergency use authorisation for convalescent plasma on Sunday as a treatment for covid-19, and said that "the known and potential benefits of the product outweigh the known and potential risks of the product."
The FDA claims that over 70,000 patients have been treated with convalescent plasma, made from the blood of people who recovered from coronavirus infections.
"Today I am pleased to make a truly historic announcement in our battle against the China virus that will save countless lives," President Trump said at a briefing in the White House.
Today's action will dramatically increase access to this treatment.
Last week, Trump accused some health officials of making policy in the country regarding the US authorization for the use of convalescent plasma.
When asked about the FDA and the non-emergency use authorization, Trump said the reason was political.
On Sunday, a source near the White House coronavirus task force told CNN that the FDA had reviewed additional data to inform its impending US decision.
This official has not personally reviewed the data.
They added that the FDA has no obligation to consult anyone outside the agency on its decision.
The convalescent plasma is extracted from the blood of people who have recovered from covid-19.
In late March, the FDA established a path for scientists to test convalescent plasma with patients and study its impact.
It has already been used to treat over 60,000 patients with covid-19.
However, like blood, the supply of convalescent plasma is limited and must come from donors.
And although there are promising signs from some studies, there is still no data from randomized clinical trials on convalescent plasma to treat covid-19.
Some of these trials are underway.
He survived the coronavirus and donated 3 liters of plasma 3: 25.
The Impact of a US
The New York Times reported last week that an FDA emergency use authorization for blood plasma to treat covid-19 was suspended following the intervention of NIH officials.
The suspension came after a group of federal health officials, including the director of the National Institutes of Health, Dr. Francis Collins, the director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, Dr. Anthony Fauci, and Dr. H. Clifford Lane, deputy director of NIAID, interceded to argue that emerging data on treatment were too weak, the Times reported Wednesday, citing two senior management sources.
In response to CNN, Dr. Anand Shah, the FDA's Deputy Commissioner of Medical and Scientific Affairs, said he could not comment, but suggested that the NIH was out of place.
"In general, the NIH is not involved in the FDA's decision-making process and does not have all of the confidential data that the FDA uses to make these regulatory decisions," Shah said in a statement sent to CNN..............
"We take seriously our mandate to follow the data and science on reviewing medical products to prevent or treat covid-19 by the legal and regulatory standards set by the agency," added Shah, noting that the FDA appreciated the NIH's work and would collaborate with its sister agency.
MIRA: Studies show that the plasma of coronavirus survivors reduced deaths by 57%
A senior administration official told CNN's Jim Acosta on Sunday that the expected emergency use authorization announcement is a major breakthrough.
"If you are one of 35 people in 100 who survive the severe symptoms of covid due to convalescent plasma, this is certainly a great advance," the official said.
"And it is certainly an advance that over 5 months during a pandemic we have -based safety data on 70,000 patients with cavid treated with convalescent plasma," the official added.
Ben Corb, director of public affairs for the American Society of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, noted in a statement that the president showed a "unwillingness" to listen to medical experts and that "advances require data collection" to ensure the safety and efficacy of treatments.
"This process is necessary to ensure our safety and to ensure that treatment is no worse than the disease," Corb said.
I am deeply concerned about this action and concerned about the moment.
Plasma demand 'exceeded anyone's expectations'
FDA emergency use authorization does not require the same level of evidence as full FDA approval, but can have a significant effect on the demand and use of a treatment during a public health emergency.
Dr. James Musser, president of the Houston Methodist Department of Pathology and Genomic Medicine, said that an emergency use authorization could simplify the administration of convalescent plasma to patients with covid-19.
"If they broadcast a US, my opinion is that it's something good for patients in the future," said Musser, who has studied convalescent plasma in patients with covid-19.
But once again, that really will depend on US parameters.
A US, which could open up treatment to more patients, could also have the effect of limiting enrollment in clinical trials that determine whether it is effective.
On Thursday, Dr. Janet Woodcock, director of the FDA's Drug Evaluation and Research Center, indicated that doctors have treated so many patients with covid-19 with convalescent plasma that it has been difficult to find out if the treatment works.
"The problem with convalescent plasma is the great enthusiasm about it," Woodcock noted in an online conversation about the latest science behind treatments with monoclonal antibodies and convalescent plasma.
It surpassed anyone's expectations in terms of demand.
Woodcock, who has gone on to lead therapeutic efforts under the Trump administration's Operation Warp Speed  , said plasma has proven promising in early studies, but Thursday pointed out that there is still insufficient evidence that it works.
His team counted 162 prospective studies and several other observational studies, but said only six met the standard that could produce processable results.
There is still no data from randomized clinical trials, he explained, but some of those trials are ongoing.
"We still have indications that this is an effective treatment for this virus in particular," said Woodcock, adding that the NIH will initiate or push further trials to find out with certainty.
Even if this approach works, the convalescent plasma has limitations.
"There is a limited group of donors; it disappears as the epidemic fades," Woodcock said.
It is not a standardized intervention and requires a compatible blood type for administration, which can be problematic in many settings.