A study fuels debate on the efficacy of remdesivir for COVID-19
ARCHIVE PHOTO: A bottle of remdesivir medicine photographed during a press conference at Eppendorf University Hospital (UKE) in Hamburg, Germany, on April 8, 2020.
LONDON, December 14 (Reuters) - A single-patient study conducted by British scientists has found that the antiviral drug remdesivir from Gilead could be highly effective against COVID-19, raising questions about previous studies that concluded that it had no impact on the disease's mortality rates.,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
The study, published in the journal Nature Communications, describes how doctors who gave this drug to a patient suffering from both COVID-19 and another rare immune disorder saw a significant improvement in the patient's symptoms and eventually the virus's disappearance.
"The unusual state of our patient gave us a rare view of remdesivir's efficacy as a treatment for coronavirus infection," said Nicholas Matheson, who co-led the study at the Institute of Therapeutic Immunology and Infectious Diseases at the University of Cambridge.
The radical response to the drug (...) suggests that it can be a highly effective treatment, at least for some patients.
From the beginning of the coronavirus pandemic, scientists hoped that remdesivir, which was originally developed to treat hepatitis C and subsequently tested against Ebola, could be effective against COVID-19.
Its efficacy, however, has been much debated since a major trial led by the World Health Organization revealed in October that it did not improve survival rates for COVID-19.
"There have been different studies that support or question the efficacy of remdesivir, but some of the studies conducted during the first wave of infections may not be optimal for evaluating its antiviral properties," said James Thavenhiran, of Cambridge, who also worked on the case.
The research focused on a 31-year-old man who became seriously ill with COVID-19 and who also had a rare genetic condition called XLA that affects the body's ability to produce antibodies to fight infection.
For a period of more than two months, the man was first treated with hydroxychloroquine and azithromycin, which had little effect, and was subsequently given two separate doses of remdesivir treatment, according to doctors.
The patient's virus levels fell and her symptoms improved during her first cycle with remdesivir.
And although the virus levels and symptoms increased again after the first treatment with this drug, the second treatment was even more effective, and by day 64, it no longer tested positive for COVID-19.
"All of this suggests that treatments should be tailored to each patient, depending on their underlying condition," said Matthew Buckland, a physician in Barts' clinical immunology department in London who worked with Matheson..............