3 lies circulating on the Internet about the cures of Covid-19
Many news stories circulating on social media are fake.
Rosa Castro.
Hundreds of news stories circulate on the network every day, many of which are not verified and create uncertainty and shock in the population.
Allegations of possible cures for Covid-19 are the most frequent, but also attacks against the government and its measures to deal with the pandemic.
Here are three lies that circulated online about Covid-19.
Taking vitamin C cures coronavirus
Amid controversy over finding a cure or remedy for coronavirus, a WhatsApp message says that consuming one vitamin C tablet per day helps cure and prevent the outbreak of the new coronavirus.
And it is that the text states that, "an otorhinolaryngologist" had recommended taking
a daily vitamin C and omega tablet
, this with the aim of
strengthening the immune system,
And so do
against the outbreak of the new coronavirus
In addition, in this same message the supposed doctor also recommends "eating fruits and vegetables."
But this is just one of the many "fake news" circulating on social media.
Message circulating on WhatsApp, in which it is recommended to take a vitamin C tablet | Edition: Rosa Castro.
Health organizations, such as the United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), do not recognize vitamin C as an aid in combating coronavirus.
While this is true, taking vitamin C supplements regularly reduces the risk of cold in people who exercise heavily, but not in the general population.
"Taking vitamin C regularly can cause shorter colds, but taking it only after a cold starts no," explains the Center on its website.
And it 's true that vitamin C doesn' t cure flu or prevent coronavirus, as some people think, but
helps to strengthen your immune system
the threat of infectious diseases.
In addition, it stimulates the good functioning of bacterial flora, determining intestinal and digestive health, reported the
But there is no evidence that it cures or prevents the new coronavirus.
In fact, there is no evidence that any food does.
That naturally heals at Covid-19.
Photo of the fake message.
Will natural medicine cure us of the new coronavirus?
No...
And it is that in recent months there has been a false news on WhatsApp that says that water boiled with garlic can cure a person with Covid-19.
But, like lemon, ginger, and other products, this recommendation is false and unsupported.
In the face of this, experts on the subject, such as Dr. Wasim Khawaja of Pakistan's Institute of Medical Sciences, have sought to refute this claim.
In an interview with the Agence France-Presse, the doctor pointed out that at the date
There is no scientific evidence to confirm that boiled garlic water is treating the new coronavirus and there is no medical research on this topic.
International health authorities, such as the United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), noted that "a specific antiviral treatment is not recommended" for coronavirus infection.
(Read CDC recommendations,
here
Source: WHO.
In addition, the World Health Organization (WHO) refuted this rumor, saying that
garlic is a healthy food that may have some antimicrobial properties.
However, no evidence has been obtained that eating it protects against the virus causing the current outbreak. "
You can read this on the company's official website.
Click here
5G technology causes coronavirus
News circulating on Facebook
5G technology has always been accused of transmitting diseases, and coronavirus is not excluded from these.
In recent days, a post has been circulating on Facebook claiming that a mandatory vaccine was applied last year in China and that the vaccine is supposed to host a digitized virus.
Also, in this post, it is also indicated that this virus
Digitized
is what causes COVID-19 and can be activated through 5G antennas.
But the truth is that all of this is false.
Source: WHO
This theory was quickly refuted by the World Health Organization (WHO), which is responsible for discrediting all of this fake news that comes out on networks.
According to this international health authority,
"viruses do not travel through electromagnetic waves or mobile phone networks";
It also mentions that
COVID-19 is spreading in many countries where there is no 5G network.
Read here
In addition, to close with a golden brooch, and to prove that this news is false, the International Commission on Non-Ionizing Radiation Protection (ICNIRP) notes in a statement that scientific evidence demonstrates, so far, that 5G devices do not cause covid-19 or increase its gravity.
It also notes that "exposure to electromagnetic fields from 5G devices does not cause COVID-19, nor does it have any effect on the disease process," it adds.
(Read here)
Expected end:
With the arrival of a new virus on the ground and the uncertainty that it brought to several people, the World Health Organization (WHO), which is managing the worst health crisis in history,
has devoted an entire page to various myths about health and how to unpack them
But it is not the only one, as a Spanish media devoted to the
has created a section on your website,
Damn fool.
, where they have devoted themselves to refuting all the lies that have been invented in connection with the cure of Covid-19.
Public Eye
, too.
In addition, in Peru, the Ministry of Health enabled line 113 to absolve all queries about Covid-19.
For busy people who enjoy summaries:
If you want to save time, watch the following video: