Mandatory use of blankets would jeopardize human rights: López-Gatell
López-Gatell said there is a great responsibility of the government to care for the citizenry, so they opted for measures that could lead to abuse of power (Photo: SSa).
Under-Secretary of Health Prevention and Promotion Hugo López-Gatell noted that the Mexican government has not implemented the mandatory use of blankets at the national level because the authorities call for people's co-responsibility and because it is the government's conviction not to take actions that could lead to human rights abuses and violations.
The epidemic control measures for SARS-CoV-2, for the COVID epidemic that the government of Mexico put in place, were carefully analysed so that at the same time they were useful (...) we would take care to respect the human rights of the people, formally in the secretariat agreements, where the Sana Distancia Day was established.
The official recalled the case of Giovanni López, a young man who died at the hands of the Guadalajara police last June on the pretext that he did not carry blankets while on the public road.
The undersecretary recalled the case of Giovanni López (Screenshot: Instagram)
"All measures must be taken with the strict observance of human rights, we already live in a situation in a particular state where there was a local operation that led to a very unfortunate, death of a person, by an abuse of the public force, claiming that a local legal provision on the use of covers had not been complied with," said the Under-Secretary from the National Palace.
He noted that, although other countries have implemented this measure, Mexico's case is special, due to the situation of violence being experienced.
"When the person is held responsible for what happens to others in a compulsory manner, coercion is established by the force of the state, not necessarily the public force (...) and that in a country that has been plagued by abuses of authority, by acts of violation of human rights, with very deplorable social violence, can result in the enormous risk of human rights abuses being repeated," he explained.
López-Gatell noted that due to these factors the government decided not to make the use of cubicles mandatory; however, they have invited and campaigned for the citizenry to bear it and be responsible.
Although using covers is not a mandatory measure many people do (Photo: REUTERS / Edgard Garrido / Photo archive)
He highlighted that, contrary to what some might point out, the government has a strong commitment to Mexicans and Mexicans, to safeguard their health and safety, and to keep citizens from suffering from structural problems.
The Government of Mexico has a strict commitment to the protection, promotion and defence of human rights in all aspects, and on this issue of health we have incorporated that perspective, because it is at the heart of the convictions of this government, and for that reason, from the technical sphere that is our responsibility in the health sphere, we analyse that the measures were not intended for the citizen, the citizen, but for structural factors.
He recalled that during the pandemic, some of the people who had left their homes, despite the recommendations not to do so, were because they lived by the day and needed to earn a living.
In this case, a restraining order may have been imposed; however, the government decided to drop the recommendation.
He pointed out that "the cover is a measure of personal use, and it is imposed as a mandatory provision, rather than a recommendation there is a significant risk of abuse, but also, being an auxiliary, not a primary measure, there is a significant risk of blaming each other on citizens."
He detailed that by making it a mandatory measure citizens could also assault each other (Photo: Cuartoscuro)
He added that when it is a mandatory measure, "it begins a defensive attitude that is always very adverse in the management of public health problems," said the Under-Secretary.
This defensive vision is not convenient, it's better to have a vision of solidarity.
Mandatory implementation could cause citizens themselves to attack, for example, when someone sees another without cover could point it out as a danger, so they have called for responsible use.
The Under-Secretary has repeatedly reiterated that health recommendations must be followed up.