One hundred people in Ecuador are recovered from COVID-19 and all cases were documented (treatment with chlorine dioxide)
The first successful treatment against Coronavirus (COVID-19) was given with over a hundred recovered in just four days in Ecuador.
This is a preliminary trial conducted by the AEMEMI Medical Association, which is the basis of international and multi-centre clinical trials.
high data in the United States, which are happening right now.
Ecuador is one of the countries most affected by Coronavirus, reporting many more deaths than official media reports.
Guayaquil is the city with the highest death toll
Given the emergency situation, AEMEMI Association doctors applied chlorine dioxide first to themselves when they were infected.
They also did so in their families.
The success was overwhelming.
The solution was used both orally and intravenously to save lives in a heavily affected area, based on emergency legislation and the Helsinki Declaration
Previously, patients were tested positive for severe symptoms of COVID-19.
And with four days of chlorine dioxide treatment they achieved 97% efficiency.
The patients gave their prior consent.
Doctors were statistically recording progress and everything is legally documented, which you can see below.
All of this shows that chlorine dioxide does cure Coronavirus and does not cause the negative side effects as falsely claimed by the FDA or other regulatory bodies, even though they never tested it for themselves as they should have done as a health control entity.
You can download these files, because they 're now public, and you read them yourself, and if possible, pull them out and see if they' re fake.
(If you can't visualize it, let it know and it goes up again)
Covid-19 Preliminary clinical trial in Ecuador of Oral and Intravenous CDS of the medical association of AEMEMI https: / / lbry.tv / @ testimonies-CDS: 5 / CDS-ENSAYO-Preliminar-Ecuador: f? r = 6ZMrXRLXZLTffy7GJN3ntNAPkZMwtJHm = UWKKKKH3KHQKH3KUKHQHUKHQHQHUKHWKH3HWKH3 Chlorine dioxide or ClO2 is a substance known as the best disinfectant against all types of fungal viruses and bacteria and has been used for 100 years.
It has been used to disinfect drinking water and blood bags for human transfusions since 1994.
After it was discovered that chlorine dioxide can be used in a therapeutic way, Andreas Kalcker has published several books, and despite that he was discredited for 13 years by anonymous websites or mass media with false accusations.
confusing people that chlorine dioxide (ClO2) deliberately with another substance, which is lithium (NaClO)
Chlorine dioxide is also not the same as chlorine, and should not be confused with chlorine.
Like a lemonade, it's not the same as a mojito.
There are thousands of voluntary testimonies confirming the efficacy of chlorine dioxide in a variety of incurable diseases to date.
Such testimony has been removed from the Internet, saying it is a dangerous substance, when no scientifically documented deaths have been recorded so far in the hundred years it is being consumed.
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is the primary promoter of this false information.
You can see Andreas Kalcker 's explanatory video on the success of his treatment with chlorine dioxide, ending with testimonies from people who were treated with Coronavirus based on this solution:
Video description:
The first preliminary data confirmed by notarial deed of more than 100 cases of COVID-19 recovered with CDS (chlorine dioxide) by AEMEMI doctors in Ecuador, thanks to Dr. García and the AEMEMI doctors for their struggle and for demonstrating that they are true health professionals caring for sick people.
This video has been released for the purpose of
reporting real facts, and for the media to become aware of a lifesaving truth that they should announce as professional journalists (without letting themselves dominate), why instead of causing panic among the population, do they not help to end Coronavirus and prevent further global economic disaster?
Warning: If they delete the video, I say again, let them know.
/ / ADDITION OF ARTICLE:
It has been almost five months since this crisis (in principle health) began.
The first cases of Coronavirus detected were in November of last year, but China, in collaboration with the World Health Organization, is delaying information to other countries until January 2020.
The death rate of the virus has focused on the elderly (mostly vaccinated against influenza), who we know through biologist Judy Mikovich * * that vaccination is an adjuvant that contributes to the danger of the viruses.
Paranoia is being generated, a kind of collective hysteria, as autopsies (necropsies) have been performed again on people in Italy who allegedly died from COVID-19 and were surprised that it was not so.
People are terrified that we can infect everyone and cause them to die quickly.
Coronavirus is not deadly in itself, what makes it deadly is the panic that has been generated in the population and lives suggested by it.
Quarantine has not been established in many countries and yet the number of cases is not much higher than in others.
This is because this population is not intimidated and influenced by the media, which do nothing but show deaths and figures every day.
I repeat, Coronavirus is not considered to be an extremely deadly disease as it has been seen everywhere.
Most of you have noticed.
is healing alone in their homes based on a series of treatments that everyone thinks are more convenient
RAFAPAL - THE TRUTH OF CORONAVIRUS AND COVID-19
By way of precaution: The video is also expected to be removed from this platform (Dailymotion), and if for X reasons do so, please inform it.
You know, I don 't write everything I want or say, first question.
They don't even believe me that I'm reporting this, the first DUDE AND LUCKY DISCOVERED.
* The Helsinki Declaration was adopted in the Finnish capital by the 1964 General Assembly of the World Medical Association, becoming the most important international document regulating research in human beings, since the 1947 Nuremberg Code.
* * Judy Mikovich, specialist in epigenetics, who studies whether or not gene marking is expressed in infectious diseases such as Coronavirus.
Alleged fraud.
Final note: Most of the text of this published has been taken from the words given in the videos by these two great researchers, one expert in biochemistry and the other in analysis journalism, journalism that almost no one practices anymore.
You can also read: