Genetic analysis points to bat as the origin of coronavirus
Bats of the species Rhinolophus Affinis, very common in China and Southeast Asia, have become the main suspects of the origin of coronavirus, due to a comparative analysis of the virus genome, done in Italy and published in the Journal of Medical Virology.
The Rhinolophus Affini have been suspected since January 23, when the Wuhan Institute of Virology launched the first coronavirus genetic identikit 2019-nCoV.
"Last Sunday we downloaded the six coronavirus genomes contained in the Gisaid and Genbank databases and looked for similar sequences in public databases," said the research coordinator, bioinformatics expert Federico Giorgi, of the Department of Pharmacy and Biotechnology of the University of Bologna, ANSA reported.
"The virus is not very heterogeneous and changeable" and that implies that "a pharmacological therapy is possible, which should work in everyone."
The analysis also indicates that the virus is changing very slowly because all human coronaviruses sequenced so far "are many, similar to each other, even if they come from different regions of China and the world," to the point of exceeding 99%.
This means, Giorgi noted, that "the virus is not very heterogeneous and changing" and that implies that "a pharmacological therapy is possible, which should work in all."
Similarly, the genetic material of coronavirus shows "a high degree of variability."
Learning more is the next goal, he added.
There is no idea how the animal could have transmitted it to man.
Here, by another animal, or by a direct bite.
The Bologna team also discovered that the human coronavirus genome shares 96.2% of its genetic assets with that of the bat Rhinolophus Affinis, whose sequence had been obtained in 2013 in the Chinese province of Yunnan.
Research conducted at the University of Bologna confirms the origin in bats and shows that the virus is not mutable, but also identifies a point of high variability.
https: / / t.co / CsXLG3vkn8 # Unibo # research # coronavirus - UniboMagazine (@ UniboMagazine) February 7, 2020
Definitely, according to the scientific team, it is lower than 80.3% of the Sars virus (Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome), the disease also caused by coronavirus which appeared in 2002-2003.
It is the second largest genetic analysis published so far, after the first coronavirus family tree that the Lancet magazine compared 10 genomes.
The work has already increased to 56 and from Sunday 2 February to date, the published sequences have become 74.
There are also coronavirus isolates from two Chinese tourists hospitalized in Rome, at the Spallanzani Institute.
No sequence, however, has so far come from Africa and South America.
There is no idea how the animal could have transmitted it to man.
Here, by another animal, or by a direct bite.
According to Giorgi, for the time being "there is no evidence of a possible guest on the chain."