VITAMIN C AND CORONAVIRUS WHITE OR NO?
Everywhere we see domestic remedies like winning the war on Coronavirus through nutrition, and the most obvious is, "Vitamin C cures Coronavirus," because let 's see if this is true or not:
Let's start by talking a little bit about V.C.:
It's a vitamin.
HYDROSOLUBLE
This means that it dissolves in water.
The amounts that the body does not need, the leftovers, expel them through the urine.
Although the body keeps a small pantry of this vitamin, it is necessary to add it daily to avoid a deficiency of it.
It is needed for tissue growth and repair throughout the body, such as:
Forming an important protein used to produce skin, tendons, ligaments and blood vessels.
Healing wounds and forming scar tissue.
Repair and maintenance of cartilage, bones and teeth.
Help with iron absorption.
It is an antioxidant nutrient that blocks some of the damage caused by free radicals:
Free radicals occur when the body decomposes food or when you are exposed to tobacco smoke or radiation.
The accumulation of free radicals over time is largely responsible for the aging process.
Free radicals can play a role in cancer, heart disease, and disorders such as arthritis.
The body does not produce or accumulate vitamin C. Therefore it needs an exogenous intake of this vitamin which can be provided by the ingestion of numerous foods such as:
Citrus: orange, lemon...
Broccoli.
Pimenta.
Tomato.
Etc...
It has always been said that Vitamin C is a home-grown cure for cold, but... is this true?
Let's see:
Science shows us that vitamin C supplements or vitamin C-rich foods do not reduce the risk of a cold or flu process.
However, people who take higher doses of vitamin C through supplements or foods rich in this vitamin may have shorter colds or lighter symptoms.
Taking vitamin C supplementation after the cold does not seem to help overcome it.
Daily vitamin C requirements are:
Girls aged 14 to 18: 65 mg / day
Pregnant adolescents: 80 mg / day
Children aged 14 to 18: 75 mg / day
Men 19 years of age or older: 90 mg / day
Women 19 years of age or older: 75 mg / day
Pregnant women: 85 mg / day
Therefore, would it help to undergo vitamin C-based therapies or increase vitamin C intake to cure COVID-19?
The answer is NO, but if it would help make the symptoms lighter.
Let 's ignore gurus who say they can find a cure with ridiculous treatments based on their own intuition.
Important?
Follow a balanced diet that provides the necessary nutrients for the body to perform its functions without problems.