The potential efficacy of chloroquine in combating COVID-19
In the last few hours you have been sending us many consultations about the use of chloroquine for the treatment of patients infected with COVID-19.
Specifically in relation to this publication of SEOM (Spanish Society of Medical Oncology).
Combining hydroxychloroquine with azithromycin manages to cure 100% of patients with # COVID19 with a 6-day treatment, according to a clinical trial led by Dr Raoult in France.
Open the possibility of an international strategy to combat the https virus: / / t.co / oOfBGhLHnp pic.twitter.com / aiF7lpMbSN - SEOM (@_ SEOM) March 20, 2020
The tweet refers to a clinical trial led by Dr. Didier Raoult in charge of the University Hospital Institute of Marseille.
According to the trial, the combination of two drugs, hydroxychloroquine and azithromycin, can cure 100% of coronavirus patients in a 6-day treatment.
What are chloroquine and azithromycin, and what do we know about them?
Chloroquine is a drug used in the treatment and prevention of malaria and autoimmune diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis or lupus.
Azithromycin is a type of antibiotic used to treat bacterial infections such as bronchitis, pneumonia, or sexually transmitted diseases, as well as other infections.
The pre-clinical study, conducted in France, has managed to treat and recover 20 patients with COVID-19 out of a total of 36 students.
This is a very small sample, but the doctors managed to lower the viral load of the infected within only three days of combined treatment.
Could these drugs really be useful for treating COVID-19?
US President Donald Trump stated at a press conference on March 21 that the combination of both drugs "has the opportunity to be one of the biggest changes in the game of medicine."
However, Dr. Anthony Fauci, one of the world's leading experts in the fight against AIDS and the chief responsible for the strategy against coronavirus in the US.
He corrected the President the following day by stating that there is only anecdotal evidence regarding the use of these drugs in the treatment of coronavirus.
The French government has authorized the use of chloroquine for the treatment of coronavirus patients.
Health Minister Olivier Véran has explained that it should only be used under strict medical supervision.
It was announced at a press conference.
For its part, the World Health Organization has moved that the use of chloroquine is an additional option in the search for treatment against coronavirus.
Soumya Swaminathan, WHO's scientific director, has stressed that there are indications of its usefulness but that no clear and rigorous studies have yet been conducted to prove that chloroquine is effective.
The Ministry of Health of the Government of Spain published on 19 March a report on the clinical management of COVID-19 and its medical treatment.
The document, coordinated by the Health Alert and Emergency Coordination Centre and the General Directorate of Public Health, aims to guide the management of patients infected with coronavirus to achieve the best possible treatment for patients, as well as to ensure adequate levels of infection prevention and control for the protection of health workers and the population as a whole.
The report refers in section 3.1.5 to the use of chloroquine for the treatment of patients suffering from the virus and states the following:
Cloroquine / Hydroxychloroquine The efficacy of chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine is currently being evaluated in a number of clinical trials, but the results have not been published at this time.
It is therefore considered that the level of evidence is still low and based on preclinical and safety data in other indications.
Despite this, its use has raised expectations so that various authorities (Italy, France, China) have included chloroquine or hydroxychloroquine as one of the treatment alternatives in patients with COVID-19 infection.
However, no dose is yet established in case of SARS-CoV-2 infection. "
FUENT:
WHO
Ministry of Health Ministry of Health
French Ministry of Health
IHU Mediterranean Infection