insert HIV-1 genes into a coronavirus
The question of the origin of the coronavirus that triggered a new pandemic keeps the world's scientific community on alert.
French scientist Luc Montagnier - who won the 2008 Nobel Prize in Medicine for discovering HIV - raised the controversial hypothesis that the virus would have been 'created in a laboratory'.
During a dialogue with the French media CNews on 17 April, Montagnier stated that he did not believe that covid-19 originated in the Wuhan market in China: "The virus is accidentally coming out of a Wuhan laboratory," he said.
According to the scientist, "the Wuhan city laboratory has specialized in these coronaviruses since the early 2000s.
They have experience, "he said.
The Nobel Prize says the virus has HIV genes
In collaboration with the mathematician Jean-Claude Perrez, Montaigner proposed that the SARS-CoV-2 virus, which causes covid-19 disease, was designed in a laboratory by inserting HIV-1 genes into a coronavirus.
I mean, the AIDS virus.
According to the controversial specialist, "there was a manipulation of the virus: at least one part, not the whole.
There was a model, which is the classic virus, which comes mainly from bats, but to which HIV sequences have been added, "he said.
After launching his hypothesis, the Nobel Prize winner added that the alleged creation of the virus "is the work of professionals, molecular biologists.
A very laborious job for what purpose?
I do not know.
One hypothesis is that they wanted to create a vaccine against acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, "he said.
Montagnier "discovered HIV and received the Nobel Prize in 2008
Montagnier's theory - according to his testimony - originated from an academic study developed by scientists at the Indian Institute of Technology in New Delhi.
Specialists found an unusual similarity in the "amino acid sequences of a SARS-CoV-2 and HIV-1 protein," as detailed on their web platform.
However, it was not endorsed or verified by international experts, so the study was withdrawn by its authors.
However, Montagnier predicted the virus's demise: "One can do anything with nature, but if you do an artificial construction, it is unlikely to survive.
Nature loves harmonious things; what is alien, like a virus coming from another virus, for example, is not well tolerated, "he said.
Look at the interview