Smoking does not protect against COVID-19.
The relationship between smoking and the risk of respiratory infections has been fairly well established for years.
Smoking is not a protective factor against any respiratory disease, so it is easy to suspect that this is not the case for COVID-19, in fact, researchers found that smoking does not protect against COVID-19.
During the months leading up to the pandemic, some media established links between tobacco consumption and the spread and severity of the virus.
In a series of articles appearing in various national newspapers, alleged evidence of a protective role of nicotine in relation to the possibility of COVID 19 infection appeared.
In the light of these data, some researchers have reviewed the scientific literature on the subject, concluding that tobacco use increases the converting gene of ACE2, which is the attachment pathway used by COVID to attach to the pulmonary epithelium.
Therefore, patients who have elevated this angiotensin converting enzyme, like smokers, will have a higher risk of infection.
It appears that the angiotensin converting enzyme receptor ECA2 is key to the cytokine cascade immune response and is related to nicotine and serves as an anchor for SARS-COVID19.
Some studies show that smokers have twice as much income (that is, not only are they more contagious, but they also have a more severe income-demanding picture) as non-smokers.
Studies that reflected a lower incidence of non-smoking infections and income were subject to a bias or methodological error known as "ecological fallacy."
Methodological bias in the studies placed smokers as less susceptible to COVID, finding that the designs lacked methodological strength as they were cross-sectional studies in patients only with COVID with selection bias and no cohort studies.
Therefore, they are studies with a methodological error that make it impossible to generalize the findings.
In conclusion, smoking does not protect against COVID-19 infection, but increases the chances of infection, on the one hand increasing the receptors of the enzyme ECA-2 and making it easier for the virus to enter and replicate, and on the other, due to the mechanism associated with mouth-to-hand tobacco consumption and rituals associated with smoking.
To the preventive efforts implemented today such as increasing interpersonal distance, hand washing, the use of masks or massive screens, strategies for awareness-raising and taboo-breaking should continue to be implemented from the National Health System that, while having an impact on the decrease in the prevalence of a large number of health problems, also does so on the transmissibility and severity of COVID-19 infections.
Full article clicking here