A look at the strangest COVID conspiracy theories, who pushed them and why they're wrong
As the coronavirus spread around the world, so did speculation about its origins.
Maybe the virus escaped from a lab.
Perhaps it was designed as a biological weapon.
Legitimate questions about the virus created the perfect conditions for conspiracy theories.
In the absence of knowledge, speculation and propaganda flourished.
University professors without evidence or training in virology were promoted as experts.
Anonymous users of social media impersonated high-level intelligence officials.
And from China to Iran, to Russia and the US, governments amplified the claims for their own reasons.
The Associated Press collaborated with the Atlantic Council's Digital Forensic Research Laboratory on a nine-month investigation to identify the individuals and organizations behind some of the most viral misinformation about the origins of coronavirus.
His claims were explosive.
His evidence was weak.
These are the super diffusers.
WHAT IS IT: A Harvard law professor at the University of Illinois, Boyle drafted a 1989 law banning biological weapons and has advised the nation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Palestinian Authority.
Boyle does not hold an academic degree in virology or biology, but is a long-time critic of pathogen research.
He has claimed that Israeli intelligence was involved in the 1993 World Trade Center bombing; that SARS, swine flu, and Ebola were genetically modified; and that the West Nile virus and Lyme disease escaped from a US biological warfare laboratory.
U.
He has also claimed that Microsoft founder Bill Gates "was involved" in the spread of Zika.
COVID'S CLAIM: Boyle says the coronavirus is a genetically engineered biological weapon that escaped from a high-level laboratory in Wuhan, China.
He claims to show signs of nanotechnology tweaking and protein insertion of HIV, the human immunodeficiency virus.
He claims that American researchers helped create it and that thousands of doctors, scientists, and elected leaders are conspiring to hide the truth.
Boyle promoted his claim in an email to a list of news organizations and personal contacts on January 24, 2020.
That same day, he was interviewed in a podcast called "Geopolitics and Empire."
That podcast was cited by a little-known Indian website, GreatGameIndia, and went viral, with Boyle's comments collected and featured on Iranian state television, Russian state media and fringe websites in the United States and worldwide.
He has since repeated his claims on Alex Jones's Infowars program.
EVIDENCE?
Boyle bases his argument on circumstantial evidence: the presence of a level 4 biosafety laboratory in Wuhan, the fact that other viruses have escaped from other laboratories in the past, and his belief that governments around the world are involved in a secret arms race over biology.
Arms.
Biosafety level 4 laboratories, or BSL4 laboratories, have the highest level of biosafety precautions.
"It seemed to me that, obviously, this came out of Wuhan BSL 4," Boyle told The Associated Press, dismissing the accepted explanation that the virus emerged from the Wuhan market as "completely absurd."
A team from the World Heath Organization concluded that it was extremely unlikely that the virus would escape from Wuhan's laboratory, and other experts have said that the virus shows no signs of genetic manipulation..............
GREATGAMIND
WHAT IT IS: A website that was one of the first promoters of the theory that coronavirus was designed.
His January 26, 2020 story on "The biological weapon of coronavirus: how China stole Canada's coronavirus and turned it into a weapon" was collected by the far-right financial blog Zero Hedge and shared with thousands of social media users before being promoted by a conservative website.
RedStateWatcher and received over 6 million commitments.
COVID CLAIM: GreatGameIndia claims that the virus, which has now killed more than 2 million people worldwide, was first found in the lungs of a Saudi man and then sent to laboratories in the Netherlands and then to Canada, where it was stolen by Chinese scientists.
The article is based in part on speculations by Dany Shoham, virologist and former lieutenant colonel of Israeli military intelligence.
Shoham was quoted discussing the possibility of COVID being linked to biological weapons research in a January 26, 2020 article in the conservative American newspaper The Washington Times.
In that article, Shoham was quoted as saying that there was no evidence to support the idea that the virus escaped from a laboratory, but GreatGameIndia did not include that context in its article.
"We support our report," said website co-founder Shelley Kasli in an email.
In fact, recently Canadians published documents that corroborated our findings with Chinese scientists... Much information is still classified.
EVIDENCE?
It is most likely that coronavirus first appeared in humans after jumping from an animal, a World Health Organization panel announced this month, saying that an alternative theory that the virus leaked from a Chinese laboratory was unlikely.
Leading scientists in the United States have also concluded that the virus is of natural origin, citing clues in its genome and its similarity to SARS, or severe acute respiratory syndrome.
Vincent Racaniello, a professor of microbiology and immunology at Columbia University who has been studying the virus since its first genome was recorded, has said that it is clear that the virus was not designed or accidentally released.
"It's something that is clearly selected in nature," Racaniello said.
There are two examples in which the sequence tells us that humans did not participate in the production of this virus because they would not have been able to do these things.
WHAT IT IS: The Montreal-based center publishes articles on global politics and policies, including a good dose of conspiracy theories about vaccines and the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks.
It is led by Michel Chossudovsky, professor emeritus of economics at the University of Ottawa and conspiracy theorist who has argued that the US military can control the climate.
The centre publishes authors from around the world, many of whom have made unfounded claims about the origins of the outbreak.
In February, for example, the center published an interview with Igor Nikulin suggesting that the coronavirus was an American biological weapon created to attack the Chinese.
The center's website, globalresearch.ca., "has become deeply embedded in Russia's broader disinformation and propaganda ecosystem" by selling anti-US.
Conspiracy theories, according to a 2020 US State Department report that found seven of its alleged writers did not even exist, but were created by Russian military intelligence.
COVID CLAIM: Although the center has published several articles about the virus, one suggests it originated in the US.
U.
It attracted the attention of leading Chinese officials.
On March 12, China's Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian retook an article published by the center entitled "China's coronavirus: A Shocking Update."
The virus originated in the United States.
US? "
He also tweeted, "It could be the American army that brought the epidemic to Wuhan.
Be transparent!
Make your data public!
America owes us an explanation. "
The story of Larry Romanoff, a regular author in the center, cites several discredited theories, including one that members of the U.S. military.
U.
They carried the virus to China during the World Military Games in autumn 2019.
Romanoff concludes that it has now been "proven" that the virus originated outside China, despite the scientific consensus that it did.
EVIDENCE?
The World Health Organization has concluded that coronavirus originated in China, where the first cases and deaths were reported.
No evidence has emerged suggesting that the virus was imported into China by the US.
U.
Chossudovsky and Romanoff did not respond to repeated messages for comments.
Romanoff's biography lists him as a guest professor at Fudan University in Shanghai, but does not figure among the university's professors.
The university did not respond to an email asking about Romanoff's employment.
Romanoff's original article was deleted in the spring, but Zhao's tweet remains active.
WHO IS IT?
Nikulin, a failed political candidate four times, is cited prominently in Russian state media and fringe publications in the West as a biologist and former weapons inspector in Iraq who served on a UN commission on biological and chemical weapons in the 1990s.
COVID COMPLAINT: Nikulin argues that the United States created the virus and used it to attack China.
He first expressed his belief in a January 20, 2020 story of Zvezda, a state media linked to the Russian army.
She appeared on Russian state television at least 18 times between January 27, 2020 and the end of April that year.
Once the virus arrived in the United States, Nikulin changed his theory and said that the "globalists" were using the virus to depopulate the earth.
Nikulin has expressed support for the use of misinformation as a weapon to harm the United States in the past.
On his website, he suggests asserting that the United States created HIV as a way to weaken the United States from within.
Russian intelligence mounted a similar disinformation campaign in the 1980s called "Operation INFECTION."
"If it proves and declares... that the virus was generated in American laboratories, the US economy will collapse under the avalanche of billions of demands from millions of AIDS carriers worldwide," Nikulin wrote on his website.
EVIDENCE?
Nikulin offered no evidence to support his claims and there are reasons to doubt their veracity.
Former UN weapons inspector Richard Butler, for whom Nikulin claims to have worked, said he did not remember Nikulin and that his story sounded "carelessly fabricated and unreliable."
No UN records could be found to confirm his employment.
In an exchange with AP via Facebook, Nikulin insisted that his claims and background are accurate, although he said some records of UN work were destroyed in an American bombing during the invasion of Iraq.
When told that Butler did not know him, Nikulin replied, "This is his opinion."
Greg Rubini is the name of an Internet conspiracy theorist who claims to have high-level intelligence contacts and listed his Twitter location as "classified," until he was kicked off the platform.
His publications have been rethought thousands of times by supporters of QAnon, a conspiracy theory centered on the unfounded belief that Trump is waging a secret campaign against enemies in the "deep state" and a secret sect of sadistic pedophiles and cannibals.
COVID'S CLAIM: Rubini tweeted that Dr. Anthony Fauci created the coronavirus and that it was used as a biological weapon to reduce the world's population and undermine Trump.
EVIDENCE?
Rubini's doesn't seem to be the intelligence infiltrator he claims to be.
Buzzfeed tried to locate Rubini last year and determined that he was the alias of a 61-year-old Italian who has worked in marketing and music promotions.
An earlier version of his Twitter biography indicates that he is a fan of classic rock and Stanley Kubrick films.
Attempts to communicate with Rubini online and through commercial contacts were unsuccessful.
Rubini has been enraged by the efforts to verify his claims.
When a social media user asked: "My question for you @ GregRubini is:" Where and what is your proof?
Rubini replied bitterly: "And my question is, why should I give it to you?..................
Twitter suspended Rubini's account in November 2020 for repeated violations of his policies.
Barrett, who was a professor of Islam at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, left the university amid criticism for his claims that the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks were orchestrated by individuals linked to the governments of the United States and Israel.
Barrett calls himself "a professional conspiracy theorist, for lack of a better term" and has argued that government conspiracies were behind the 2004 Madrid bombing, the 2005 London bombing, the 2013 Boston Marathon bombing and the 2016 Orlando nightclub shooting.
COVID'S CLAIM: Barrett said he is "80%" sure that elements within the US government created the coronavirus as a biological weapon and was used to attack China.
Iran was a secondary target, he argued.
Writing for PressTV in Iran, he said that the early outbreak in that country "suggests that Americans and / or their partners, the Israelis... may have deliberately attacked Iran."
Barrett further detailed his views during an interview with AP.
"It seemed pretty obvious to me that the first hypothesis that one would look at when something as extraordinary as this COVID pandemic strikes is that it would be a biological warfare attack by the United States," he said.
EVIDENCE?
Barrett cited reports that the U.S.
U.
He warned his allies in November 2019 about a dangerous virus emerging from China.
Barrett said that it was long before Chinese authorities knew the severity of the outbreak.
Official sources have denied issuing any warning.
EE.
U.
I heard about the virus so soon, probably thanks to intelligence sources within China, who may have known about the virus in November 2019, according to former Secretary of State Mike Pompeo.
LUC MOUNTAINS
WHO IS: Montagnier is a world-renowned virologist who won the 2008 Nobel Prize for discovering HIV.
COVID'S COMPLAINT: During an interview in April with the French news channel CNews, Montagnier claimed that the coronavirus did not originate in nature and was manipulated.
Montagnier said that in the process of developing the AIDS vaccine, someone took the genetic material and added it to the coronavirus.
Montagnier cites a retracted article published in January by Indian scientists who had said they had found HIV sequences in the coronavirus.
AP made several failed attempts to contact Montagnier.
EVIDENCE: Experts who have analyzed the virus genome sequence have said that it has no HIV-1 sequences.
In January, Indian scientists published an article on bioRXIV, a repository of scientific articles that have not yet been peer reviewed or published in a traditional scientific journal.
The paper said that scientists had found "an astonishing similarity of unique insertions" in COVID-19 and HIV.
Social media users took the role as proof that the virus was designed.
As soon as it was published, the scientific community widely discredited the article on social media.
He was subsequently retired.
Khamenei is the second and current Supreme Leader of the Islamic Republic of Iran.
It has the final say in all matters of state, including the economic, military and health divisions.
Since his election in 1981, Khamenei has maintained his skeptical view of the United States as Iran's main enemy.
Tensions between the two countries overflowed in 2018 when Trump pulled the US out of the Iran nuclear deal and re-imposed crippling sanctions.
At that time, Khamenei commented, "I said from the first day: don't trust the United States."
Hossein Salami was appointed by Khamenei as commander of Iran's Revolutionary Guard in April 2019.
He directs the country's paramilitary force that oversees Iran's ballistic missile program and responds to threats both inside and outside the country.
On March 5, 2020, Salami stated that Iran was involved in a fight against a virus that could be the product of an American biological attack.
For these reasons, Salamis ordered a biological defense maneuver of the ground force to test the country's ability to combat a biological attack.
As of March 16, the Ground Force, in close collaboration with the Ministry of Health, began performing biodefense simulations at the national level.
Khamenei was one of the first and most powerful world leaders to suggest that the coronavirus could be a biological weapon created by the United States.
like Iran if they themselves were suffering and accused of producing the virus.
Khamenei continued to reject U.S. aid and said that "possibly medicine is a way to spread the virus more."
Last month, he refused to accept coronavirus vaccines manufactured in Britain and the United States, calling them "prohibited."
Iran's Mission to the United Nations in New York did not respond to multiple requests for comments.
EVIDENCE: There is no evidence that the US created the virus or used it as a weapon to attack Iran.