The 'FUE' coronavirus developed in the Wuhan laboratory, as China hoped to prove that it is bigger than the United States to combat deadly diseases. "- The Sun
CORONAVIRUS was "developed in a laboratory in Wuhan as China hoped to demonstrate that it is larger than the United States to combat deadly diseases," explosive reports reveal.
President Trump acknowledged the shocking claims during his daily press conference Wednesday after people inside said that the communist country created COVID-19 to demonstrate its dominance in the fight against the disease.
Trump did not deny the rumors when he was questioned by John Roberts of Fox News about the inner lab of the Wuhan Institute of Virology, who allegedly infected her boyfriend with the virus.
"We hear the story more and more," Trump said while the death toll in the United States exceeded 28,000.
We'll see.
When you say "multiple sources," there is now a case in which you can use the word 'sources'.
But we're doing a very thorough review of this horrible situation that happened.
Several informants told Fox that the deadly insect was not manufactured as a biological weapon, but to prove that China was equal or superior to the US.
U.
In terms of its ability to fight infections.
It was described as one of the "most expensive government covers of all time" by one of Fox's sources.
The initial transmission was from bat to human when a "patient zero" lab worker went to the Wuhan community, say his experts.
They cite classified information, open source documents and evidence to which the station has requested access.
Blaming the Wuhan meat market, where bats are not sold, was an effort to divert blame from the Communist government when the laboratory's containment efforts failed, according to Fox.
The Washington Post reported that the U.S. embassy highlighted inadequate security measures at the Wuhan laboratory, where scientists conducted dangerous investigations into bat coronavirus.
The Embassy considered the proceedings to be risky as of January 2018.
General Mark Milley, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, told Fox that "it should not surprise you that we have had a great interest in it and that a great deal of intelligence has analyzed it carefully."
"I would just say that at this point, it's not conclusive, although the weight of the evidence seems to indicate natural, but we don't know for sure," Milley said.
President Xi Jinping warned the public about the killer on January 20, seven days after thousands of people traveled through Wuhan for Lunar New Year and there were already 3,000 cases.
Condemning reports have also emerged that China has tried to cover up its role in the pandemic's reach by silencing whistleblowers and scientists, while concerned doctors have disappeared.
After praising the Chinese government for its "efforts and transparency" on January 24, Trump turned against the communist nation and referred to the disease as the "Chinese virus."
He repeatedly said that the World Health Organization (WHO) was complicit in his COVID-19 cover-up and stopped funding US $500 million to the group, a medical measure and some Democrats have condemned it.
During his Rose Garden speech this afternoon, Trump again criticized the WHO, saying that they were a "tool of China" during and before the outbreak.
"China is paying $38, 39, and 40 million a year," Trump enraged.
They control this group.
I could do that too if I wanted... I could do it very well with that. "
He also indicated that China has not yet presented the facts, as the United States surpassed them as the world's most affected country last week.
Do you really believe those numbers?
The suit.
In that vast country called China.
We have more cases because we make more reports.
Trump refused to go into more details about his knowledge of the Wuhan lab-derived outbreak when journalists pressured him.
Apples
Brian Allen of the Rams is the first NFL player to give positive for virus.
Married doctors who fight the virus say a photo of them hugging is a 'symbol of love'
Police find 17 bodies stacked in a small morgue in a virus-ravaged NJ nursing home.
CNN host Chris Cuomo reveals that his wife Cristina also gave positive for virus
That's rich.
All Megarich residents on the luxurious island of Florida for $40 million can be tested for viruses
I don't want to discuss what I told you about the lab.
I just don't want to discuss it.
It's inappropriate at this time, "he said.
Last month, China Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian suggested that the US military might have fabricated the disease on Twitter, echoing Iran's unfounded claim.
Geng Shuang, spokesman for China's Foreign Ministry, also said that "certain American politicians" were stigmatizing China by linking it to COVID-19, although he did not explicitly mention Trump.
Do you have a story for the US Sun team?
Send us an email at exclusive @ the-sun.com or call 212 416 4552.
Denos I like on Facebook at www.facebook.com / TheSunUS and follow us from our main Twitter account at @ TheSunUS.