The Chloroquine Gap: How one of the star drugs against coronavirus has become a scientific mess
If Trump takes the drug and increases the chances of getting it... let's hope karma does its job.
Then the racist or fascist is the gringo.
Still hanging around with the cheap slayer?
It 's that if people are scared, they get to take things even knowing that there are no drugs created yet.
I believe that in this global health emergency, military decisions should be made on the medical side.
If a soldier in the field receives information that shows that, statistically, something gives him an advantage, he would not hesitate to make the determination, and then the reason would be discovered and a protocol created.
There are already several statistics that show a reality, such as to take emergency determinations: • Vitamin D, so it should be an emergency medical order to sunbathe 15 minutes a day.
• Using chloroquine and nicotine patches based on statistics only.
Then continue to draw epidemiological data to corroborate or disprove, and do not wait for a protocol to be established.
Statistics are statistics.
You're saying savagery.
Statistically, a drug may go slightly well.
But if you don 't look beyond that, it might lead to 100 percent mortality for people with diabetes, for example.
Statistically they will be a minority, so 'statistically' the drug certainly works well.
If that 's how you want to understand it, but if you had a statistic where 100% of diabetics are killed by a drug, you wouldn' t have to.
If you want to understand, you understand all the statistics involved, not just the statistics you want to see.
The examples I gave are none of a drug or experimental substance, which would be the assumption of its savagery, not mine.
https: / / actualidad.rt.com / current / 354332-oms-suspension-testing-hydroxychloroquine-treat-covid
https: / / actualidad.rt.com / current / 355397-oms-resume-tests-hydroxychloroquine
Bye.
What a cry, is RT saying something that's not true?
The WHO suspended them and then resumed them.
Just as you speak of "Russian propaganda," it is because you are a victim of Western propaganda.
Most artificial chemicals tend to create an imbalance in the body, and I 'm not a doctor or an engineer, but I think I can even say that.
Would it not be more interesting to try natural remedies first?
There is a lot written on the web about using artemisa for that purpose, for others as well, but I don't see that any "scientist" spends a lot of time checking it out.
I don 't know if it' s because of skepticism, pride or whatever, but surely a plant has fewer contraindications and would not be the first natural remedy that we lost with the advent of science and that our ancestors cured.
As the man they found mummified thousands of years in a glacier in the Alps, in his nostrils he was carrying penicillin, supposedly to cure his wounds, then lost.
And as a phrase, for "scientists" who by default reject any remedy that does not come in pills: The greatest enemy of science is the skeptical scientist.
Surely in this case the artemisa is only worth an infusion but nature well earns the right to an opportunity.
Let's see, gojito666.
You don't seem to have read much about how chemistry works.
Chemistry was born with the intention of understanding how a part of nature worked.
Therefore, the whole basis of chemistry is based on nature.
Organic chemistry and inorganic chemistry.
Once understanding the functioning, or at least the behavior, of a part of nature, chemistry attempts to replicate it in the laboratory.
And when you know how to replicate nature, the next step is to try to do something that isn 't in nature.
You think the Artemis hasn't been investigated?
I'm sure it is.
I'm sure some lab has downsized the last component of that plant.
I'm sure they've identified each and every one of their molecules, and somewhere you'll be writing about how they work.
If it has not been used, it is probably because there is no conclusive evidence that it serves our interests.
Suppose, for a moment, that among the molecules of artemisa, there 's one that gives a palsy to the coronavirus that breaks it down.
Excellent.
Fantastic. We found a molecule or a combination of them that could help us.
Do we make an artemisa infusion and that's all right?
Because we don 't know how many of those great molecules there would be in that infusion, it can vary in the plant, it can vary according to the amount of water that we' re going to make the infusion, or it can vary by one of the mineral salts that 's in the water that we' re going to make.
So if we can 't know how many of those wonderful molecules there are in each infusion, we can' t know if we 've reached the threshold that it' s effective.
Total, we know nothing.
Sauce bark infusions seem to go very well, for headache and fever.
How much bark should you use, how much water, at what temperature,...?
That's already been investigated and put in an aspirin.
They 've separated from the cortex all the molecules that don' t serve us for headache or fever, and what they call acetylsalicylic acid, they put it in a pill that 's comfortable to transport and easy to swallow, with the amount studied to make it effective for most people, and if it doesn' t make you effective, you take.
In 20 minutes, your head has stopped hurting or your fever has gone down.
When chemistry has replicated the beneficial effects of willow bark, it 's seen why they do it, and it' s even found other uses for it, it 's tried to go further, and it' s invented other molecules that do the same by sorting out some of the drawbacks of aspirin.
Aspirin is not recommended in women who are having the period, because it increases the risk of significant blood loss, which is why paracetamol was invented, which removes pain, but has no such drawback.
Because yes, friend, natural things can also have side effects, even serious side effects.
The cicuta is very natural, but it takes you to the quadrilateral.
Let chemistry investigate.
Chemistry is your friend.
Tell my grandmother...
Your grandmother writes as well as you?
Your grandmother is alive thanks to chemistry.
Let the chemistry investigate.
Chemistry is your friend... "
Chemistry is good;)
That is precisely what scares me, so much faith ends up blinding, if noble scientists have already realized the danger of being skeptical and give it all by knowing....
I was already a good friend of science, like you, and they left my wife with a disability.
I understand your thinking, but I'd rather weigh all the options.
According to your reasoning if at any time a relative of yours has a car, train or plane accident, you should leave aside any of those means of transport.
A mistake does not invalidate millions of dollars.
I'm sorry about your wife, but if you think that pseudoscience is the alternative, it's not your wife who suffers from inferiority...
It 's that chemistry sounds all the options, because it' s a science and as such it uses the scientific method.
Do not use "amimefonionism."
The vast majority (not to say nearly all) of the existing antibiotics one can believe are "chemical" and therefore unnatural... come from fungi.
Yes yes... that family of living things that, in some cases, we eat either in pizza or in the form of a vegetable riot...
Quinine, widely used in the prevention of malaria until chloroquine... comes from a plant.
By the way, it 's the same quinine that we use with tonics when drinking gintonics, which, by the way, is a combination originating in the colonial era of India.
A way to prevent gout (gin) and malaria (quinine).
The chloroquine, mentioned earlier, also comes from another plant, namely a Peruvian plant and introduced into Europe in the form of herbs in 1633.
I refer to Wikipedia: https: / / es.wikipedia.org / wiki / Cloroquina
And so... we would have a myriad of examples...
Before humans appeared on earth, living beings (unicellular or multicellular like fungi, plants, animals, or lichens) already had a raw war for survival.
Thus, in agreement with you, drugs are the condensed version of 'natural remedies', justified and supported by low scientific rigor tests, so they are often highly reliable when approved as an option to combat a body condition.
Misinformation abounds, less so that there is always someone willing to teach and show why things are.
I don't know what you two do, space and gojito, using the Internet if it's natural that people communicate with those they have next door... Hypocrisy that keeps the world fun I guess.
Or maybe they 've already tested it, and people in the human natural environment, far from the computer, weren' t interested in those gains.
The pills are made with compounds that exist in nature.
They don't do "magic," they've been there forever.
Hydrochloroquine, for example, is present in the bark of some trees and has been used for hundreds of years.
The natives inherited the bark and today you have it in a pastillite.
But it is the same, only more concentrated and possibly mixed with other substances equally present in nature that enhance their effects.
That you prefer the artemisa, because it sounds great, it's not me who tells you that you can put it in your body and that you can't.
But keep in mind that you 're putting a drug into your body exactly the same as you would with a pill.
A drug that, like everyone else, has side effects, contraindications and incompatibilities with other drugs.
Furthermore, there is no indication or evidence that it may be useful for treating coronavirus.
Nor is it proven for now that Hydroxychloroquine is useful to be fair.
So my advice is to avoid putting chemicals in your body, come from a pill or a plant, if there's no evidence that they're going to help you.
Chloroquine is a chemical synthesized from quinine, a natural product.
Quinine is extracted from quinine tree and used in the past to combat malaria.
In addition, if the world were to use natural quinine instead of chloroquine, the quine tree would have been extinct (it is now an endangered species).
Without wanting to dwell on what other commentators have already explained to you about chemistry and so on, I want to show you your mistake from another point of view: bear in mind what the words mean: natural does not mean "good," it means that it can be found in nature.
Therefore, things, whether natural or not, can be good or bad, or even good at certain doses and bad at other doses.
To give some examples, the balloon fish is natural, as is the tetrodotoxin found in its body, as is ricin, arsenic, strychnine, cyanide and many more, all as natural as deadly.
By the way, I can think of another example of something natural: SARS-COV-2, which is the virus that causes the current COVID-19 pandemic, and which is as natural as your natural "cure."
But it is that, as I said at the beginning, it is important to understand the real meaning of the words: natural does not mean "good."
A great example of something "natural......" SARS.... as natural as the natural human intervention in all this PLANDEMIA..... and the one who doesn't want to see it.... What an ear it has!
And I take this opportunity to say (though this comment is censored or criticized)... that:
There are obtuse champions of science... that their fundamentalist defense lacks the least scientific method and rigour, such as pretending that official medicine does not cause as much (or more) harm (currently) as these other demonized pseudo-alternatives... It is of absolute idiots and / or ignorant volunteers not wanting to see such palpable evidence.
And I will not demonstrate what anyone with a minimum of objective reading - without "scientific" obsessions - can see.
How to suppose that an astronaut knows how to put on a mask in public.... There was the evidence.... And so... so much... that I'm not going to say that it makes YEARS that I take some demonized substance and that CURA in a few days (proven before a notary)... that we all know but that... still interested in condemning.
For years I should have been very dead or very bad... (and like me, family, friends...).
But what CL also uses... is something that does a lot of good.
So much so that I dare, once again, to call genocides and / or accomplices of genocide, who are vetoed, banned or lied about that substance.
And time will tell.
Although many will see it from other places....
Huy, it seems that someone has been offended by explaining that natural means that you can be found in nature and that things can be good or bad or even good in certain doses and bad in others whether something is natural or not.
If you want to reply to the comment it seems good to me, but reply to the comment.
Is what I say right or is it wrong?
If you think it's wrong, why do you think it's wrong?
What data makes you think that?
Can you share that data?
Otherwise, when I read your comment in "answer" to mine even though it doesn't really answer anything, I get a question: if by chance you have symptoms of appendicitis, for example, who would you go to?
(a) A gardener (b) An electrician (c) A notary (d) A doctor
After answering Vienna and telling me about the miraculous healings "proved before a notary" that, although it has made me laugh a lot (which is to be thanked in these times), I must remind you that the area of experience of a notary has nothing to do with either health or medicine.
If you are treated with a substance, do not go to the notary, go to a doctor and start an investigation.
Be philanthropic and help mankind.
Life itself is a continuous chemical imbalance.
That 's why we eat, breathe, shit and eat, to compensate for part of that imbalance.
Comparing natural versus artificial is the greatest global stupidity of the uneducated.
Until we know how to make atoms, EVERYTHING, I repeat, EVERYTHING that is made is natural.
I do not doubt that the artemisa may be beneficial, but I will explain it to you in a simple and brief way.
Science is responsible for discovering the "active principles" that are compounds of artemises that generate these positive effects.
It can be one or more.
They then make "artificial pills" that are only concentrated from the active ingredients, extracted perhaps from the same artemisum and removing the remaining compounds that can be from neutral to harmful.
As always chattering by saying monumental nonsense, no, if you think, the scientific community, today does not know the effect of these drugs, jajajaja, how many rubbish you have to hear, you know, that you will be very aware of everything and have nothing.
There is a lot of misinformation, but if you can provide us with reliable sources to support your comment, we would all appreciate it.
Indeed, science does not know the effect of drugs... ON COVID GRAVE PACIENTS 19.
When a disease is new, you have to try new things.
Science is nothing more than bringing together what is known about a subject.
On a new subject, we have to study again.
Medicine IS NO MAGIC, NO INVENTORY, NO CREATION, BUT IT DISCOVERS, IT'S VERY DIFFERENT