Venezuelan discovery against coronavirus: it's still early to claim that it's an effective treatment
"Venezuela has achieved a medicine that completely cancels the coronavirus," President Nicolás Maduro announced days ago.
The mandate referred to the results of a research carried out by the Venezuelan Institute of Scientific Research (IVIC), but it is still very early to ensure that this development will become an effective and safe treatment against COVID-19.
According to the Venezuelan Ministry of Science and Technology itself via its Twitter account, "Venezuela has isolated the discovered molecule, the technical-chemical report and the assessment of the biological activity attributed (100% inhibitor of SARS-CoV-2 in" in vitro "cultures)."
In vitro cultures are part of pre-clinical studies, which serve to test the effect that a molecule with potential drug use may have on the virus under artificial conditions in the laboratory.
Because they do not take into account the particularities that can be given within the human body, they are not conclusive, as explained in this note.
If in pre-clinical studies the potential drug produces satisfactory results, then it goes to the human clinical trial stage to test safety and efficacy, which can take several months and even years of research.
Randomized clinical trials, where some participants receive treatment and others receive a placebo, produce the most reliable evidence.
Furthermore, it is important that scientific research be published and reviewed by its peers, to ensure rigour.
In this line, the Academia de Ciencias Físicas, Mathematicas y Naturales de Venezuela, which links academics from different branches, stated that it "does not know of any publication in internationally recognized scientific journals that refer to the results described" and urged "the national government not to publish misleading information or create false expectations in the population about the availability of treatments against COVID-19."
"The finding of an agent with active potential against any pathogen (...) is not equivalent to the discovery of a drug," the academy indicated in a statement that was also published by the Venezuelan media Efecto Cocuyo, adding: "The development of a drug requires a series of procedures (...) that may take years, not months."
For their part, Venezuela's vice-executive president, Delcy Rodríguez, and the minister of Popular Power for Health, Carlos Alvarado, met with representatives of the World Health Organization and the Pan American Health Organization in Venezuela to present "the results of the study of the DR10 molecule."
Chequeado communicated with PAHO to consult with him on the progress of the "certification process" to which Maduro referred, but until the publication of this note did not receive an answer.
If you want to be better informed about the pandemic, go to the Coronavirus Special.
Did you like this note?
Help us maintain this project.