WHAT IS THE ORIGIN OF CORONAVIRUS?
The National Dialectic Writing Team has collected the most widespread conspiracy theories about the origin of Coronavirus or COVID19.
Some theories have more foundation than others, others can be complemented with others, and finally there are some that are incompatible with the rest.
In any case, here we collect them and summarise them, without wishing to judge them.
1.- COVID19 was created by Trump to end China.
It was one of the first theories to spread, and argues that the US released the Coronavirus on Chinese territory (by carrying it, or sabotaging a Chinese research laboratory) to root out its biggest economic and strategic rival.
In this way, the US would prevent China from reaching world economic power number one, and, in the interim, reverse the process of widespread business relocation to China.
2.- COVID19 was created by Trump's enemies.
It is to prevent him from being re-elected.
In an attempt to cover up and dissipate Trump's biggest victory in his legislature, the powerful US-China Trade Agreement, the so-called "Deep State," the world's financial elites, are dumping the Coronavirus in China.
In doing so, they provoke China's breach of the agreement, chaos in US companies' supply chains, resulting in unemployment, undersupply, and an economic crisis that will bring down the New York Stock Exchange, leading to widespread anti-Trump discontent in the US presidential election in November 2020.
It was created by China to consolidate its economic power.
It consists of two phases.
In the first phase, the virus produces an internal economic crisis, causing a general decline in China's stock market, which is being exploited by the Chinese state to take control of all major domestic companies at the balance-sheet price.
In the second phase, the virus spreads around the world, causing widespread economic and stock-market chaos, which is being used by China to buy all of the most valuable companies in the West, and to gain the world's productive monopoly.
4.- It was created to install 5G technology on a planetary scale.
This theory states that COVID19 is a smokescreen, to keep people isolated at home while 5G antennas are installed.
In this way, witnesses and protests are avoided, stemming from the possible negative effects on 5G health, and with the ultimate aim of establishing comprehensive population control.
According to them, while 5G technology is dangerous to life because of the enormous power of its signals, those who dominate the world install it to have complete control of the population.
In addition, the virus would give them the opportunity to establish the so-called New World Order by forcing certain social and political changes with restrictions and restrictive measures.
5.- COVID19 was created by Bill Gates
He tries to become the most powerful person in the world by already possessing the vaccine.
According to this theory, Microsoft's founder and a select group of world leaders would use the same tactic of creating computer viruses to generate the antivirus business.
As Gates has been working with vaccines for years at his Foundation, he would have outlined this plan, then complemented it with a mandatory personal digital certificate for all people in the world, which will determine who can leave their home, work, travel...
the Mark of the Beast without which no one can buy or sell
6.- COVID19 was created by Saudi Arabia to take over the oil monopoly
This country wants to paralyse renewable energy, and buy all the companies of global value.
According to this theory, it was no accident that at the height of COVID19, Saudi Arabia began its war on the price of oil.
Thus, he used the virus to trigger a global economic crisis that amplifies the effects of the fall in oil prices, and has forced even Russia to yield to the Saud family's demands. In this way, he eliminates unwanted competition from American fracking, consolidates his leadership over oil-producing countries, and remains with most of the energy market.
At the same time, Saudis are using their enormous economic power to take a strategic stake (at Chollo prices) in the world's most valuable companies.
Finally, this scenario paralyses any energy change project towards renewable energies, given the high cost required for its implementation.
7.- COVID19 is an escape from a US military laboratory
The leak has been covered up, attributing its lethal effects to the use of electronic cigarettes.
The American military laboratory at Fort Detrick was mysteriously closed in August 2019 for "security reasons."
According to this theory, this escape would be linked to the strange increase in deaths from electronic cigarette "vapors" in the US, detected from last summer, and attributed to hitherto unknown pneumonia.
This lung disease is COVID19, the US biological weapon that escaped from his laboratory, and in an attempt to cover up the disaster the "vapor theory" was invented.
From there it would have spread to Hawaii, where Japanese tourists were infected, and then to China, where it arrived by the American military participating in the Military Olympic Games in Wuhan in October 2019.
8.- COVID19 has been created by high international finance
It wants to control the world's population so that it can end pensions, and reduce world debt.
According to this theory, various secret societies led by Christine Lagarde (ECB, and formerly IMF) would have launched the virus, as a Malthusian brake, to control the global overpopulation that threatens available resources, especially economic ones, so the virus is created to target especially the elderly, i.e. pensioners.
In this way, the global financial system is freed from the huge pension liability, in a highly indebted environment, that would make the current model impossible, and that would produce a series of revolutions that would overthrow the current economic model that sustains elites, fed by a global financial Ponzi scheme.
9 - COVID19 was created to destroy Islam.
For the first time in history, the pilgrimage to Mecca has been banned, and Muslims around the world have been banned from attending Friday prayers at mosques.
Furthermore, according to this theory, the vaccine will have a hormonal disruptor that will cause a modification of human behavior, which in the vaccine will cause the cessation of any radical thinking.
Out of the Conspiracy Fan
Let us consider the following approach.
What if it's not a conspiracy, and simply COVID19 is the result of a combination of China's bad eating habits, lack of hygiene, and illegal animal trafficking in Asia?
This is what the popular presenter Frank Cuesta, better known by Frank de la Jungla (or Wild Frank), argues, for whom the cause of this virus is that certain wild animals have been taken (illegally) to markets and eaten practically raw.