RAI revealed in 2015 that Chinese scientists created a coronavirus in bats
Rome, Italy.
A video from an Italian scientific television program that warned in 2015 that China was manufacturing a coronavirus using bats has been viral on social media in recent days pointing out that Covid 19, which has left more than 48,000 dead in the world, is a biological weapon.
However, Italian experts and the RAI television network denied the information, claiming that in fact, a 2015 article published by the scientific journal Nature Medicine and taken up by RAI revealed that China created a coronavirus from bats to investigate the effect of this type of virus on humans.
A group of Chinese researchers inserted a bat protein into the SARS virus causing acute pneumonia in mice, which could affect humans.
It is confined to a laboratory and is only for study, but is it worth taking the risk of creating a threat just to examine it?
, "said a news reporter who picked up the video that was later viral on networks.
Covid 19 is of animal origin
To refute the information, RAI interviewed Antonio Lanzavecchia, director of the Bellinzona Institute and one of the researchers who participated in the 2015 experiment, who confirmed that Covid-19 is a virus completely different from what was created five years ago in China.
The journal Nature also stepped up the information by publishing a new article entitled "The Approximate Origin of SARS-CoV-2," in which it concluded that the virus of the current pandemic "is not a laboratory construct or a purposefully manipulated virus, but a virus of animal origin."
Similarly, Franco Locatelli, president of the Superior Council of Health and member of the scientific committee that supports the government in the fight against COVID-19, said that "there is no evidence that this was the mechanism by which SARS-CoV-2 was generated.
It's fantasy bioterrorism.
All international groups share the sequence of isolated strains of the new coronavirus and that scenario has never been hypothesized. "
See: Hantavirus is not a new epidemic coming from China
Several microbiology or biotechnology laboratories often modify and manipulate certain viruses to observe their behavior and develop vaccines.
A study, published in Science China Life Sciences magazine, sponsored by the Beijing Chinese Academy of Sciences, analyzed the relationships between the new strain and other viruses.
He discovered that the coronavirus that arose in the city of Wuhan was closely related to a strain that exists in bats.
"The fact that bats are the native hosts of Wuhan CoV (coronavirus) would be logical and convenient reasoning, although it is still likely that there are intermediate hosts in the bat-to-human transmission cascade," researchers noted in the report.