Truth and falsehood about the ways in which the new coronavirus is transmitted
Several social media publications warn of the different ways in which a person could be infected with the new coronavirus, which appeared in the Chinese city of Wuhan in late 2019.
Some of these claims are true, but others are not.
Is the virus kept alive in mail packets?
The Simpsons Predicted the New Coronavirus
The Simpsons and PREDIERON as Coronavirus expands around the world (sic)
, maintain some publications on Facebook (1, 2), Twitter and Instagram (1, 2) that contain a fragment of the animated series The Simpsons.
There the employee of a Japanese factory sneezes over a package that is sent by plane to the home of the protagonist family.
Upon opening it, Homer absorbs the germs and becomes ill.
Screenshot of a Facebook post, made on February 20, 2020
But could the virus survive in a box sent from China?
World Health Organization (WHO) spokesperson Tarik Jasarevic told AFP Factual in an email that it is not possible:
From previous analyses of other coronaviruses, we know that these types of viruses do not survive long on the surface.
Therefore, you are very unlikely to contract COVID-19 simply by touching the outside of a package sent from China or another country.
Viruses generally cannot survive more than a few hours with porous materials such as paper or cardboard. "
Meanwhile, Dr. Inmaculada Casas Flecha, secretary of the Spanish Society of Virology, raised a similar answer:
Coronaviruses have a wraparound that is like a corona-shaped membrane - hence the name coronaviruses - extremely sensitive to ultraviolet light.
Any trace of coronavirus that might have ended up in a package or object would disappear and no longer come into contact with sunlight. "
He also added that
Only environmental viruses, which are found for example in some waters, are viable outside living organisms.
But no enveloped virus, like coronaviruses, is viable in the environment. "
Can eating animals cause infection?
Although the origin of the new coronavirus has not been conclusively determined, it was targeted at the role of bats and pangolins in its transmission, as well as a Wuhan market in Hubei Province, China, where live animals as varied as rats, coyotes and giant salamanders were sold.
In this context, several users raised on Facebook (1, 2) and Twitter that consumption of meat of Chinese origin can cause contagion.
Pangolin was identified as the animal that transmitted the new coronavirus to man.
On this, Jasarevic, of the WHO, acknowledged that
"the source of the virus has not yet been identified, although it is likely to be considered an animal source";
WHO encourages the public to follow guidelines on hand hygiene, safe food practices and food purchasing and cooking recommendations, including avoiding unprotected direct contact with live animals and animal contact surfaces when visiting markets and cooking food, especially meat.
, he added.
On 24 February, the Chinese government decided to ban the trade and consumption of wild animals, due to research linking their consumption to the emergence of the new coronavirus.
On February 26, a spokesman for scientists at the Agricultural University of Southern China working to find the animal source of COVID-19 transmission who had initially pointed to pangolin told the journal Nature that there is no longer any certainty that this mammal was the transmitter of the virus to humans.
Because of
"embarrassing communication error between the bioinformatics group and the laboratory group";
, when the genetic analysis of a virus-carrying pangolin was published, it was claimed that its genome was 99% the same as that of a virus-carrying human.
However, the correct figure was 90%, which becomes insufficient to consider this animal the origin of human contagion.
Can pets transmit the new coronavirus?
Soon after the outbreak of COVID-19 (as the WHO calls the disease caused by the new coronavirus) began, publications began to appear warning of the risk of pets being carriers of the virus, which would have led Wuhan residents to dispose of these animals (1, 2, 3).
Images of domestic animals wearing masks and other types of protection also began to circulate (1, 2).
Would it be possible for cats and dogs to infect and transmit the new coronavirus?
The WHO disregards this (1, 2, 3).
In addition, Jasarevic told AFP Factual that
At present, there is no evidence that pets or pets, such as dogs or cats, can be infected with the new coronavirus.
However, it is always a good idea to wash your hands with water and soap after contact with pets.
This protects against common bacteria such as Escherichia coli and Salmonella that can pass between pets and humans. "
Screenshot of a Facebook post, made on February 25, 2020
Is it transmitted during pregnancy or by breast milk?
Screenshot of a post on Instagram, made on February 20, 2020.....
Last February 4, Chinese doctors detected that a child was infected with the virus, just 30 hours after birth.
Although it was still being investigated whether it was a mother-to-child transmission, as the parent had tested positive in a pre-birth test, several publications on Facebook (1, 2, 3), Instagram and Twitter pointed to this possibility.
According to AFP Factual, the WHO spokesman noted that
It is too early to clearly define the risks for pregnant and lactating women and their newborns.
It is recommended that pregnant and lactating women suspected of, or confirmed to have, coronavirus disease be treated with supportive therapies, taking into account the physiological adaptations of pregnancy. "
According to the WHO spokesperson, the WHO clinical network is discussing the transmission of the virus, including:
Risk for pregnant and lactating women
, he explained.
Is coronavirus being operated on?
Screenshot of a Facebook post, made on February 20, 2020
Several posts on Facebook and Twitter show a video in which two doctors are allegedly
operating on coronavirus
However,
coronaviruses cannot be removed by surgery
, the WHO spokesman reported.
Some symptoms of the new coronavirus, according to the WHO, are: fever, cough, general malaise, nasal drip, and sore throat.
They may also appear
'alarm signs'
as respiratory difficulty and increased respiratory symptoms such as expectancies, or digestive symptoms (nausea, vomiting and diarrhea).
In more complicated cases, psychic alterations such as confusion or lethargy may arise.
There is currently no cure for this disease.
According to WHO on its website,
people infected by 2019-nCoV must be given adequate care to alleviate and treat symptoms "
It has also been treated with flu and HIV drugs, plasma injections, and even traditional Chinese medicine.
The Chinese government plans to begin trials of a human vaccine starting in April.
COVID-19, with a mortality rate of 2.3%, is not like other coronaviruses.
Although in mainland China it caused more deaths than Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) in 2002-2003, COVID-2019 is
"less lethal"
, according to the WHO, that SARS, which had a 13% mortality rate.
It is also smaller than that of Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS), which was first identified in Saudi Arabia in 2012 and is still ongoing, with a mortality rate of over 30%.
Seasonal flu or influenza kills between 290,000 and 650,000 people annually worldwide.
Does it affect room temperature?
US President Donald Trump said on February 10 that the disease will disappear in April, with the arrival of the Northern Spring, because the disease is.
heat usually kills this kind of virus.
He also posted on Facebook in English (1, 2, 3) and Spanish (1, 2) an account of an alleged doctor working in Wuhan who claimed that the new coronavirus
It is not heat resistant and dies at a temperature of 26 to 27 degrees.
According to Jasarevic,
The virus is too new to know how a warmer climate could affect transmissibility.
The virus has affected people in cold, dry, warm and humid climates.
We advise the public to follow precautions wherever they live "
According to French epidemiologist Arnaud Fontanet, a specialist in emerging diseases at the Institut Pasteur, SARS appeared in winter and the epidemic ended in July 2003, during the summer in the northern hemisphere, leading some to speculate that its disappearance was due to the arrival of good weather.
Figures, Evolution, and Proportion of Cases of Contamination, Deaths, and Healed People from Covid-19 in China
How is it transmitted?
? Avoid touching your eyes, nose and mouth? Wash your hands frequently? Avoid contact with sick people?
? Some of the advice to protect you from and other diseases.
Latest data on??
- OPS / WHO Uruguay (@ opsomsuruguay)
Regarding the ways in which the new coronaviruses coronavirus corcorcoronavircorcoronavircorcorcorcorcorcorcorcorcorcorcorcorcoron
The main drivers of transmission, according to the data currently available, are people with symptoms.
WHO is aware of the possible transmission of COVID-19 to people who are ill with the virus before they develop symptoms.
Detailed exposure histories are being taken to better understand the pre-symptomatic phase of infection and how transmission may have occurred in these few cases.
Transmission by an asymptomatic person is very rare with other coronaviruses, such as the Middle East Respiratory Syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV).
Symptomatic people transmit viruses more easily by coughing and sneezing. "
, told AFP Factual.
To stem the spread of the virus, the city of Wuhan, which has more than 11 million inhabitants, has been quarantined since January 23.
In other parts of the world, such as Iran and Italy, as well as a cruise at a Japanese pier, quarantine zones were also set up.
The COVID-19 outbreak began in December 2019 in Wuhan Province, China.
Since then, more than 80,000 cases of infection and more than 2,700 deaths have been detected in mainland China.
Outside the area, at least 3,000 cases of COVID-19 have been recorded in 40 countries, killing nearly half a hundred people.
AFP Factual has already verified other misinformation related to the new coronavirus.