No, chlorine dioxide and MMS do not cure coronavirus
With the coronavirus crisis, they have again spread and made viral messages and supposed scientific studies advocating the so-called Miracle Mineral Solution (MMS).
There are reports that have been circulating for years now that claim that this product is an alternative medicine that cures Covid-19.
It's FALSE.
We have the substance that is banned for your medical use but is not banned for sale as a disinfectant, which is MMS, activated sodium chlorite.
In a few days a coronavirus will be solved. "
Josep Papias
The chlorine dioxide would have to work because what it does is oxidize the capsids of viruses and precisely the coronavirus has very prominent capsids... The solution we have with the dioxide is obvious, it is a solution that works years ago. "
Mr Andreas Ludwig Kalcker
These statements are two of the proponents of the Miracle Mineral Solution and now falsely claim that MMS cures coronavirus.
The videos where Pamies and Kalcker maintain him have been deleted by YouTube for "violating community guidelines," but despite being collected in the report
Content on YouTube and social networks promoting products of supposed curative efficacy of COVID-19
, which was drafted by the Audiovisual Council of Catalonia (CAC) in March, are still circulating on WhatsApp and Telegram.
A few days ago you sent us a document in PDF and book format entitled
The health of the possible
, of 2013, signed by Andreas Ludwig Kalcker.
The World Health Organization has made it clear that there is still no cure for coronavirus
: "So far, no medication has been shown to prevent or cure this disease.
The WHO does not recommend self-medicating with any drug, including antibiotics, to prevent or cure Covid-19. "
No country recognizes MMS as a drug
Ten years ago, in May 2010, the Spanish Medicines Agency withdrew the MMS from the market: "The said product has not been subject to prior evaluation and authorisation by the Spanish Medicines Agency [...], its presence on the market being illegal."
In October 2018, the Spanish government filed a complaint with the Public Prosecutor's Office for the risk posed to the lives and health of people by the sale or advertising of the Miracle Mineral Solution as a remedy for the cure of different pathologies.
It was announced in the Senate by the then Minister of Health, Consumption and Welfare, María Luisa Carcedo Roces.
On that occasion, it was erroneously circulated that MMS was used to cure autism.
For its part, the Generalitat lists MMS in the list of medicines that are most frequently purchased on illegal websites.
Other countries have warned of MMS risks.
In 2018, the Department of Health Canada (Health Canada) warned of the dangers of the Miracle Mineral Solution and also the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA), which in August 2019 warned of the dangerous and potentially life-threatening side effects of MMS.
In addition, three months ago, the FDA sent a letter to a company that was marketing MMS as a method of prevention and treatment for Covid-19 and explained that it had received "reports from people who had suffered serious adverse health effects after taking a chlorine dioxide product."
They have also positioned themselves:
In Chile, the Institute of Public Health
In Bolivia, the Ministry of Health
In Argentina, the Ministry of Health
In Ecuador, the National Agency for Health Regulation, Control and Surveillance
In the United Kingdom, the Food Standards Agency
In Austria, the Federal Institute for Drugs and Medical Products
In Germany, the Federal Institute for Drugs and Medical Devices
What is MMS?
Miracle Mineral Solution (MMS) is the name used to refer to ACS, an acidified sodium chloride, a mixture of sodium chloride, which is like a salt, and citric acid, one of the components of lemons and oranges.
It is "a very simple and easy thing to do," explains Xavier Giménez, a chemist and scientist of the UB, because the two substances with which it is made are very easy to obtain.
Citric acid is a natural substance, whereas sodium chloride is dangerous by itself, at all concentrations except in very small doses.
Another related substance, CDS, is chlorine dioxide solubilized in water.
CDS and ACS are not identical, but are related, since when ACS is prepared, within the liquid mixture chlorine dioxide is formed, namely, chlorine dioxide is produced when sodium chlorite is acidified.
They are two ways of preparing practically the same substance.
Why is MMS dangerous?
MMS is dangerous because it's a lie.
It is not the typical lye (sodium hypochlorite) but is based on the use of chlorine as an oxidizing agent.
Chlorine dioxide has been used for over 100 years to eliminate microbes, for example when sterilizing an operating room or the kitchen of a restaurant.
"These agents are sterilizing because they are so powerful that they destroy all known life forms, not just bad microbes, but all human cells," Giménez adds.
In a metal surface such as the kitchen, where there are only polluting and harmful forms of life, its use is not problematic, but in no case, according to the expert, can it be a medicine.
A drug is a substance that is selective, that acts against a pathogen or a very specific agent that causes a disease, but is essentially harmless to the rest of the body.
Instead, ACS is a biocide, i.e. a substance that kills different forms of life;
means life and
d
Kill.
Maria Parelló, the head of the Drug Information Center of the College of Pharmacists in Barcelona, adds that the powerful and oxidizing action of sodium chlorite (ACS) "can produce side effects such as abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting or diarrhea."
MMS, even in small doses, "does not bring you any benefits and has risks," he concludes.
There are also people who take MMS as a prophylactic measure, because they believe it helps them to be healthy.
It's a slow-acting poison that, over the years, causes you to lose red blood cells at such a slow pace that you're not conscious.
This substance causes anemia with the months, but it is such a slow effect that people cannot attribute it to the fact that they are taking this, "Giménez relates.
Who promotes the consumption of MMS?
As we have pointed out, in Catalonia, the biggest supporter of MMS is Josep Pàmies.
A few months ago, the Council of Colleges of Physicians of Catalonia (CCMC) denounced Pàmies for promoting the MMS product as a treatment for Covid-19, and the General Council of Official Colleges of Physicians (CGCOM), at the state level, announced that it would personalize itself as a private charge in the procedure that had been initiated following the CCMC's complaint.
The prosecution filed the investigation, according to different media.
On a global scale, it was Jim Humble who initially advocated and popularized the use of this product.
In Europe, the movement is represented by Andreas Kalcker, the author of the book
Health Is Possible