Gob!
Washington orders mandatory confinement from November 17th
Main Page
SEATTLE, Wash. - Washington Governor Jay Inslee announced restrictions Sunday to help stem the spread of COVID-19 in the state.
State health experts documented an increase, with the highest number of cases reported in a single day on Saturday.
Governor's restrictions affect all social gatherings, bars, restaurants, shops, gyms and religious services for four weeks.
The following restrictions will enter into force at 12: 01 a.m. on Tuesday, 17 November, unless otherwise indicated:
Indoor social gatherings with people who do not live in their homes are prohibited, unless all are quarantined for two weeks and given negative coronavirus.
Outdoor social gatherings should be limited to five people outside their home.
Restaurants and bars will be partially closed.
They will only operate under orders to take delivery orders and outdoor meals will be limited to 5 people per table.
Restaurant and bar restrictions come into effect at 12: 01 a.m. on Wednesday, November 18.
Exercise facilities and gymnasiums must be closed for indoor operations.
Outdoor classes are allowed, but are limited to five people.
The bowling centres must be closed for indoor service.
Professional business meetings are prohibited.
They are only allowed for professional training and testing that cannot be done remotely.
Occupation for professional meetings is limited to 25% or 100 people, whichever is less.
Theatres will close in on-site service.
But autocins are allowed, but they must follow current guidelines for autocins.
Museums, zoos and aquariums will be closed for indoor service.
Real estate events such as "open house" are prohibited.
Wedding receptions and funerals are prohibited.
But other ceremonies are limited to no more than 30 people.
supermarkets and retail stores will be limited to 25% occupancy and must close all seating areas.
Religious services are limited to 25% indoor occupancy or no more than 200 people, which is less.
No choir, band or ensemble can perform during service and face covers must be used at all times.
Companies should allow employees to work from home whenever possible and close offices to the public.
If offices are to remain open, occupancy is restricted to 25%.
Long-term health care centers can only offer open-air visits.
There are exceptions for people about to die.
Sports for young people and adults are limited to the open air.
Masks are required for athletes.