Remdesivir drug, modest effectiveness against coronavirus
A vial of the remdesivir research drug is visually inspected at a Gilead manufacturing site in the United States.
Remdesivir reduces the mortality rate and duration of the disease, but it is not the magic substance expected.
However, the United States has approved a special license for the treatment of patients with coronavirus.
Immediately after the first coronavirus infections in China were known, researchers focused their attention on remdesivir.
This drug was originally developed against Ebola and also showed effects against SARS and MERS.
SARS-CoV-2 is considered a variant of the 2002 SARS pathogen.
However, remdesivir, developed by the US pharmaceutical company Gilead Sciences (GS-5734), had not been officially authorized in any country.
Until E.
U.
approved for use after a first clinical trial.
It can now be injected into hospitals for patients with severe pulmonary insufficiency.
The manufacturer Gilead Sciences announced that it would donate 1.5 million doses.
White House Celebrates Positive Effects
The first positive results of the randomized clinical trial in the United States.
U.
were announced on Wednesday (April 29) from the White House.
The director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID), Anthony Fauci, said in a press conference with Donald Trump about remeserving that "this will become a standard for treatment."
A total of 1,063 patients with varying degrees of severity participated in the COVID-19 adaptive treatment trial.
They received remdesivir or placebo for ten days.
In a random study of these characteristics, neither doctors nor patients knew who was taking the active ingredient and who was taking a placebo daily.
Subscribe to our special coronavirus newsletter and click here.
According to NIAID, preliminary results indicated that patients with COVID-19 who received remdesivir recovered on average 31% faster than patients with placebo.
Patients treated with the drug recovered after an average of 11 days; the rest after 15 days.
The mortality rate was 8% in the drug-treated group compared to 11.6% in placebo patients.
Study cancelled due to lack of patients
These results are apparently sufficient for the US.
President Trump's adviser also admitted that the study's results should now be evaluated by independent experts.
Parallel to Washington's success stories, disappointing reports came from China, where for the first time, patients with severe diseases with COVID-19 were tested randomly in intensive care units in Wuhan.
Meanwhile, the study was canceled due to a lack of patients, according to The Lancet.
What do the results mean?
In both studies, the active substance was shown to be modestly effective.
It reduces the mortality rate slightly, but not significantly.
It also reduces the duration of the disease.
While all of this is gratifying, it is far from the resounding success many had hoped for...
The leading German experts in infectious diseases, such as Professor Gerd Fätkenheuer of the University Hospital in Cologne, who leads a clinical trial with remdesivir (GS-5734), expected rapid approval of remdesivir to treat COVID-19, after the study was known.
"For serious patients, this study creates the hope of being able to recover from infection more quickly and safely," said Professor Fätkenheuer.
However, "there will not be enough active ingredients available in the future.
Therefore, there is an urgent need to investigate more active ingredients in clinical trials.
However, the benchmark for its effectiveness in the future will be remade. "
Professor Clemens Wendtner, chief physician of Infectology and Tropical Medicine and head of the special unit in Munich, shares the same view: "After lopinavir / ritonavir and also hydroxychloroquine did not meet their expectations, remdesivir will now serve as a reference for the future development of COVID-19 drugs, despite some limitations."