Using Masquerades in Public: What You Should Know
Alicia and Mai Gonzalez using masks on 24th Street in San Francisco.
Alicia bought her mask at a Halloween store and Mai received a mask from her physiotherapist.
This article was updated on 22 April, 4: 02 p.m.
Last week, several Bay Area counties announced orders requiring residents and workers to wear masks or coveralls either while going to stores, traveling in public transportation, or employed in essential jobs such as supermarkets and medical offices.
The measure is part of an increasingly aggressive set of local measures to stop the spread of coronavirus.
San Francisco, Alameda, Marin and Contra Costa counties announced last Friday the requirements to wear masks or covers, the order came into effect last Friday, April 17 but will be enforced from Wednesday, April 22.
San Mateo officials indicated that they would soon announce a similar order.
Sonoma County, which announced its order on Monday, began enforcing the law from last Friday.
Los Angeles County also began requiring covers this week.
According to county orders, covers include any fabric that completely covers the nose and mouth and fits securely, whether a handkerchief, scarf, or a mask made of cotton cloth.
Usually, masks are not required to exercise or travel in your own car.
And in most counties, children aged 12 and under are excluded from having to use them.
Authorities are also encouraging residents to avoid buying N95 protective masks or surgical masks, which are scarce and should be reserved for health workers.
The movement occurs in the midst of several scientific research suggesting that covering the face with cloth is an effective tool to help stop the spread of the virus, which is now considered highly contagious days before symptoms appear, and for people who remain asymptomatic (without visible symptoms).
And on Friday, Governor Gavin Newsom suggested the possibility of a state-wide masquerade order that would require all Californians to cover their faces in public areas.
During his daily briefing, Newsom, who was not wearing a mask, said he was "encouraged by the work done locally and throughout the state of California."
But only recently did officials fully support the drive to wear masks.
But a new guide from the state of California and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention now suggests that the population should actually use some kind of cover when they leave their homes to do essential jobs or tasks, such as shopping at the supermarket.
Last Friday, April 3, President Trump said that his administration was now recommending that Americans wear some kind of non-surgical mask, though he emphasized that doing so was voluntary and that he had no intention of wearing one.
"I don't think I'm going to," he said, "wear a mask while I salute presidents, prime ministers, dictators, kings, queens, I just don't see it."
In a recent press release, Dr.
Sonia Angell, director of the California Department of Public Health, noted that although blankets are not a substitute for good hygiene practices, they can be useful to keep you and those around you safe.
"Using a face mask could provide some additional benefit by acting as a reminder for other people to keep their distance, and could help reduce the spread of infectious particles from those who might be infected but have no symptoms," Angell said.
In other words, using something over your mouth and nose can't hurt, and it might even help.
Public health officials in the Bay Area agree that before it was not recommended to wear masks, circumstances have changed.
"Now that the virus is spreading in the community, people with no symptoms or mild symptoms are more likely to have coronavirus and not know it," said San Francisco health officer Tomás Aragón in a press release on April 2.
The reversal follows the discovery that, contrary to previous assumptions, people infected with coronavirus can still propagate it even when they show no symptoms.
"This helps explain how fast this virus continues to spread across the country," Dr. Robert Redfield, director of the CDC, told NPR in early April.
And while federal, state, and local officials say that masks or covers can certainly help reduce the spread of coronavirus, they emphasize that using them does not replace previously established hygiene protocols.
The covers could provide some additional protection against COVID-19, but Californians should not have a false sense of security if they choose to use them.
Make sure you are also six feet away from other people if you have to leave your house to buy food or go to the pharmacy for medication, "said the State Secretary of Health and Human Services, Dr. Mark Ghaly, in a press release.
State officials recommend using fabric covers, which may be made of different types of fabrics including cotton, silk, or linen.
The main reason, they emphasize, is "to reduce the release of infectious particles into the air when someone speaks, sneezes or sneezes, even someone who has COVID-19 but has not yet shown any symptoms."
If you choose some kind of cover, health officials recommend following these basic steps:
Make sure you completely cover your mouth and nose.
Once you put it on, don't touch it!
And don't try to adjust it either.
Wash it often.
Continue with social distance (stay at least 6 feet away from other people) and good hygiene practices (wash your hands thoroughly and frequently).
Draw the cover if it is damaged, stretched or if it no longer fits over your whole mouth and nose.
See this guide from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on how to use the covers properly and instructions on how to do one at home.
Federal and local officials also continue to ask the public to reserve N95 masks or surgical masks, considered "essential supplies," for the thousands of health workers who urgently need them.
This article has been translated by journalist Azucena Rasilla.