Social estrangement is needed now more than ever
Please, social distance is essential, that is to say stay at home as much as possible, keep safe and healthy, stay at home and let us understand the spread of Covid-19:
Why does keeping distance help to keep others healthy?
Because COVID-19 is transmitted from person to person, reducing the ways in which people come into close contact with others is essential.
Social distance means staying at home as much as possible and avoiding conglomerations and public places where contact with other people is more likely.
Coronavirus can spread from person to person even before symptoms (asymptomatic) begin.
So if someone in your family starts to feel a little tired, exhausted, or depressed, it's important to stay home and practice "self-isolation."
This means limiting contact with others is indispensable social distance, .keep safe and healthy, stay at home.
If symptoms worsen, with fever, cough and shortness of breath (lack of breath), call your doctor
Phones to call in Guatemala 1517 and 1540
Stay safe and healthy, stay home
But social estrangement only works if we all participate.
And slowing or preventing the spread of the virus will save lives. Stay safe and healthy, stay at home.
The spread of COVID-19 has been rapid and governments are doing what is necessary to protect us from contracting the disease, stay at home.
Although most infected people will have symptoms similar to those of a cold or flu, and children seem to be less affected by the virus than adults, we are all responsible for protecting those at greater risk.
Measures like social estrangement seem inconvenient, but they are the best way we have now to protect our most vulnerable family members, friends, and neighbors.
Source: htps: / / www.healthychildran.org / Spanish / health-issues / conditions / chest-lungs / Paginas / Social-Distancing-Why-Keeping-Your-Distance-Helps-Keep-Others-Safe.aspx
Social alienation means staying at home as much as possible.
Stay at Home: Keep Safe and Healthy