Lysol does kill coronavirus on surfaces
The EPA announced that Lysol Disinfectant Spray and Lysol Disinfectant Max Cover Mist meet the agency's criteria for use against coronavirus based on laboratory tests that found both products kill the virus two minutes after contact.
Why is this important?
: In a statement, the EPA explained that before companies can legally claim that their products work against a particular pathogen, the agency must first authorize it based on a review of data.
Guidance issued in January in response to the outbreak allowed manufacturers to provide EPA with data showing the effectiveness of a product against coronavirus.
According to this guide and the agency's product review, the EPA has a list of more than 420 products that meet the agency's criteria for use against the virus, including several Lysol products.
Tilo Torres Nicolás, the leader of the taxi union of the municipality of Centro, confirmed that they are providing the service without air conditioning, this, derived from a request from the Ministry of Mobility and the Ministry of Health, as in closed places it is more likely to spread the coronavirus virus, so this decision was made for the health of all.
In an interview, the leader of this guild, mentioned, that this situation is causing annoyance among some of the users, because they are asking for "air conditioning," but they are being explained, that it is derived that we are still with a pandemic, and that, in closed places, despite having air conditioning, it is easier to spread this disease.
It is explained to him that this decision was made for the good and health of each user and even of the drivers.
He mentioned that, in the face of this situation, the decision was made not to turn on the air conditioning, that the valves of the four doors are completely down, so that the air can circulate and with this situation, prevent as much as possible the spread of this disease, in addition to having antibacterial gel, in some cases even wet towels, to prevent this scenario from being presented.
Similarly, he said that the service is not being provided to those users who do not have the mouthpiece, at least and even though they have received insults, but it is preferable, and drivers have been told to avoid this type of user, because obviously, there is no empathy either with them or with society in general, and it is necessary to take care of all of us, so that this ends as soon as possible.
For this reason, he mentioned Tilo Torres Nicolás, who will continue to provide the service without air conditioning, despite the high temperatures they will continue to give in Tabasco, but it is a recommendation to prevent a spread of coronavirus between the user and the driver.
Latest News
Politics 23 hours ago
Politics 23 hours ago
Politics 23 hours ago