The use of ivermectin against Covid-19 can cause hepatitis by medication
Self-medication is not recommended for any disease.
With the spread of Covid-19 however, it has gained many followers and can cause quite dangerous side effects.
One of these is medicated hepatitis which, in extreme cases, requires a liver transplant.
According to hepatologist Paulo Bittencourt, president of the Brazilian Institute of Liver of the Brazilian Society of Hepatology, 27% of acute or fulminant hepatitis are medicated.
This damage may be caused in Brazilians by the indiscriminate use of ivermectin vermicide.
Pneumologist Frederico Fernandes, president of the São Paulo Society of Pneumology and Tyology (SPPT), said on Twitter that he evaluated a young patient who is about to need a transplant.
According to Fernandes, she had a light frame of Covid-19 and self-medicated with 18 mg ivermectin per day for a week.
The result?
A liver overload.
"It's very sad to see a young man needing a transplant for using a drug that doesn't work in a situation that doesn't need any medication," he said in the publication.
After exposing the case on the platform, Fernandes began receiving virtual attacks.
He then decided to make his profiles inaccessible on social media.
Yes, I am.
18 mg per day for one week.
He killed him young.
It's very sad to see a young man needing a transplant for using a drug that doesn't work in a situation where he doesn't need any medication.- Fred Fernandes (@FredLAFernandes) February
Frederico Fernandes's tweet describes a patient with probable drug hepatitis caused by incorrect use of ivermectin.
Medication against parasites
ivermectin is safe to remove parasites from the body, provided it is taken under medical supervision.
The problem was its inclusion in a list of drugs, known as the covid kit, which, although not having proven efficacy in the treatment of Covid-19, was advocated by politicians as a solution to the disease.
Mauro Schechter, a specialist in infectious diseases at the Federal University of Rio de Janeiro (UFRJ), notes that the consequences of prolonged use of ivermectin are unknown.
"The drug is only safe for the indications that are labelled," he warns.
According to him, 3% of patients have side effects associated with the central nervous system.
In addition, ivermectin causes malformations in the foetuses of different animals, cannot be used by pregnant women and, at higher doses, is lethal to mice and causes seizures in dogs.
Paulo Bittencourt warns that the three drugs in the covid kit (ivermectin, chloroquine, and azithromycin) can cause acute hepatitis.
Although the occurrence is rare, the concern is the use of large-scale over-the-counter to treat a disease that already affects millions of people.
"Complications can be more frequent with exacerbated use," he assesses.
Bittencourt himself had a patient who used ivermectin every 15 days, at his own discretion, to avoid Covid-19.
He developed nausea after taking the drug.
People say, 'If you don't do it right, you won't do it wrong', but that's not entirely real.
The situation was so out of control that MSD, the pharmacist responsible for the manufacture of ivermectin, issued a statement about the drug.
According to the company, there is no evidence to support the efficacy of the drug against Covid-19.