Hydrochloroquine, Trump's drug, can cause psychosis and hallucinations
This drug has been used to treat malaria and malaria, and, at the moment, there are no conclusive studies showing its efficacy against the new pathogen.
Trump, in a speech this week.
Reuters
The word hydroxychloroquine may not tell you anything.
But if you read that it is the medicine Donald Trump has said he takes to prevent coronavirus infection, it is already something else.
And what is this product?
Are you tested to fight the pathogen?
Do you have side effects?
At the moment, the announcement made by the US president - he has been taking a daily pill for two weeks - has met with the strong response of the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA), which has issued an alert stating that this medicine has not been demonstrated to be "safe or effective" for Covid-19.
But Trump goes his way: he has already recommended using glue against the virus.
It is a drug known since the 1940s and has been a key element in the fight against malaria and malaria.
Plaquenil is also used to combat autoimmune diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis and lupus.
Yes, I do.
The Spanish Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products (AEMPS) warned about this a few days ago.
What are they?
It can produce neuropsychiatric disorders such as acute psychosis, attempted suicide, or consumed suicide.
In fact, according to this body, serious cases of this type have been reported in patients of Covid-19 treated with this product: in these patients, disorders arose during the first days of treatment.
According to AEMPS, psychiatric disorders have been described in the literature using these drugs for authorized indications, including agitation, insomnia, confusion, mania, hallucinations, paranoia, depression, catatonia, psychosis and suicidal ideation.
These effects can occur at any age, during acute or chronic use, and in patients with or without a history of psychiatric illness.
In addition, according to The New York Times, which cites several studies, hydroxychloroquine is not safe for people who have abnormalities in their heart rate, eye problems involving the retina, or liver or kidney diseases.
Other possible side effects include nausea, diarrhea, mood changes and skin rash.
Yes, I do.
Indeed, in March, the use of this drug in patients in China and France yielded hopeful results.
Especially in the country of Gaul: a report was published from a hospital that had tested this substance in a group of 24 patients and that significantly reduced the presence of the virus in the nasal cavities.
In fact, in cases where it was supplied mixed with the antibiotic azithromycin, the virus became extinct.
However, the results were inconclusive because the study groups were reduced.
In the Asian case, the subjects studied were also few, 62, and in addition to the drug used by Donald Trump other drugs were used, so hydroxychloroquine cannot be given full efficacy.
Two American universities, cited by The New York Times, are testing it.
At present, there are no conclusive results.
In the meantime, the Spanish Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products (AEMPS) has recognized that hydroxychloroquine constitutes a potential treatment for Covid-19 and is used extensively in clinical practice in these patients, at doses higher than those recommended in their authorised indications and frequently in association with azithromycin.
That is, the data is limited.
Currently, no randomized controlled clinical trial has demonstrated the efficacy of these drugs for the treatment of patients with COVID-19.
"So far, the available information on your antiviral action comes from in vitro studies and series of patients with limitations in size and methodology," review on your website.
"It will not be very effective compared to the treatment of vaccines that may come," has advocated the professor of pharmacology at the University of Valencia Salvador Máñez.