Why is France hiding a cheap, proven cure for viruses?
It could be argued that the French government is helping Big Pharma to benefit from the Covid-19 pandemic.
It could be argued that what is happening in the world's fifth largest economy points to a major collusion scandal in which the French government is helping Big Pharma to benefit from Covid-19's expansion.
Informed French citizens are absolutely furious about this.
My initial question to a serious and impeccable Parisian source, the jurist Valerie Bugault, was about the dangers of linkage between Macronismo and Big Pharma and especially about the mysterious "disappearance," most likely direct theft, of all chloroquine stocks held by the French.
government.
Respected Professor Christian Perronne spoke about the live theft on one of France's information channels 24 hours, 7 days a week: "The central pharmacy of the hospitals announced today that they were facing a total breakdown of stocks, which were looted."
With the input of another anonymous source, it is now possible to establish a timeline that puts the recent actions of the French government in a much needed perspective.
Let's start with Yves Levy, who was the head of INSERM, France's National Institute of Health and Medical Research, from 2014 to 2018, when he was appointed extraordinary state adviser to the Macron administration.
Only 12 people in France have reached this state.
Levy is married to Agnes Buzy, who until recently was Macron's health minister.
Basically, Macron's party presented Buzy with an "offer he cannot refuse" to leave the ministry, amid the coronavirus crisis, and run for mayor of Paris, where he was mercilessly beaten in the first round on March 16.
Levy has a feud with Professor Didier Raoult, a prolific and frequently cited specialist in transmissible diseases in Marseille.
Levy retained the INSERM label of the world-renowned research center IHU (Hospital-University Institute) run by Raoult.
In practice, in October 2019, Levy revoked the foundation status of the different IHU in order to take over its research.
Raoult was part of a clinical trial in which hydroxychloroquine and azithromycin cured 90% of Covid-19 cases if analyzed very early.
(Early and massive testing is at the heart of South Korea's successful strategy.)
Raoult opposes the total blockage of healthy individuals and possible transporters, which he considers "medieval" in an anachronistic sense.
He is in favor of mass testing (which, in addition to South Korea, were successful in Singapore, Taiwan, and Vietnam) and rapid treatment with hydroxychloroquine.
Only contaminated individuals should be confined.
Chloroquine costs one euro per ten pills.
And there is the problem: Big Pharma, which, crucially, funds INSERM and includes "national champion" Sanofi, would prefer a much more cost-effective solution.
For the time being, Sanofi says he is "actively preparing" to produce chloroquine, but that can take "weeks," and the price is not mentioned.
A minister fleeing a tsunami
Here is the timeline: > On January 13, Agnes Buzyn, still Minister of Health of France, classified chloroquine as a "poisonous substance," from now on only available by prescription.
A surprising move, considering that it has been sold in France for half a century.
> On March 16, Macron's government orders a partial closure.
There is no cure for chloroquine.
Initially, the police are not required to wear masks; most have been stolen anyway, and there are not enough masks even for health workers.
In 2011, France had nearly 1.5 billion masks: 800 million surgical masks and 600 million masks for health professionals in general.
But then, over the years, strategic stocks were not renewed, to please the EU and implement the Maastricht criteria, which limited membership in the Stability and Growth Pact to countries whose budget deficits did not exceed 3% of GDP.
One of those responsible at the time was Jerome Salomon, now a scientific adviser to Macron's government.
> On 17 March, Agnes Buzyn says she learned that the spread of Covid-19 will be a great tsunami, for which the French health system has no solution.
He also says that he had understood that the Paris mayoral election "would not take place" and that it was ultimately "a masquerade."
What it does not say is that it was not made public at the time of its run, because Macron's entire political machine was winning the "masquerade."
The first round of the election meant nothing, as Covid-19 advanced.
The second round was postponed indefinitely.
I had to know about the impending health disaster.
Raoult has emphasized the key point: use chloroquine in very special circumstances, for people evaluated very early, when the disease is not yet advanced, and only in these cases.
He's not advocating chloroquine for everyone.
This is exactly what the Chinese did, along with their use of interferon.
For years, Raoult has been advocating a drastic revision of economic health models, so treatments, cures, and therapies created mainly during the 20th century are considered a heritage at the service of all mankind.
"That 's not the case," he says, "because we abandon medicine that' s not profitable, even if it 's effective.
That's why antibiotics are hardly manufactured in the West. "
On Tuesday, the French Ministry of Health officially banned the use of chloroquine-based treatments recommended by Raoult.
In fact, treatment is only allowed for patients who are terminally ill with Covid-19, with no other possibility of cure.
This can only expose Macron's government to further accusations of at least inefficiency, along with the absence of masks, tests, contact tracing, and fans.
On Wednesday, commenting on the new government guidelines, Raoult said: "When lung damage is too important and patients come for resuscitation, they practically no longer harbor viruses in their bodies.
It is too late to treat them with chloroquine.
Are these the only cases, the very serious cases, that will be treated with chloroquine under the new directive of [French Minister of Health] Veran? "
If so, he added ironically, "then you can say with scientific certainty that chloroquine doesn't work."
Raoult was not available to comment on Western media articles citing the results of Chinese evidence suggesting he is wrong about the efficacy of chloroquine to treat mild cases of Covid-19.
The employees instead pointed out their comments in IHU's newsletter.
There, Raoult says it is "insulting" to ask if we can trust the Chinese to use chloroquine.
If it were an American disease, and the President of the United States says, "We need to treat patients with that," no one would argue. "
In China, he adds, there were "enough elements for the Chinese government and all Chinese experts who know coronaviruses to take an official position to deal with chloroquine."
Between the moment we have the first results and an accepted international publication, there is no credible alternative among the people with the most knowledge of the world.
They took this measure in the interest of public health. "
Crucially, if he had a coronavirus, Raoult says he would take chloroquine.
Since Raoult is rated by his colleagues as the world's number one expert on communicable diseases, well above Dr. Anthony Fauci in the US.
I would say the new reports represent Big Pharma talks.
Raoult has been savagely ruthless and demonized by French corporate media that are controlled by a few oligarchs closely linked to macronism.
Not by chance, the demonization has reached levels of jaunes vests (yellow vests), especially due to the extremely popular hashtag # IlsSavait ("They knew"), with which the yellow vests emphasize that French elites have "handled" the Covid-19 crisis by protecting themselves while leaving the population defenceless against the virus.
That is related to the controversial analysis by crack philosopher Giorgio Agamben in a column published a month ago, where he was already arguing that Covid-19 clearly shows that the state of emergency, similar to a state of emergency but with important differences for philosophers, has been completely normalized in the West.
Agamben spoke not as a physician or virologist but as a master thinker, following in the footsteps of Foucault, Walter Benjamin and Hannah Arendt.
Noting how a state of latent fear has transformed into a state of collective panic, for which Covid-19 "once again offers the ideal pretext," he described how, "in a vicious vicious circle, the limitation of freedom imposed by governments is accepted."
in the name of a desire for security induced by the same governments that are now intervening to satisfy it. "
There was no state of collective panic in South Korea, Singapore, Taiwan, and Vietnam, to mention four Asian examples outside China.
An obvious combination of mass testing and contact tracing was applied with immense professionalism.
It worked.
In the case of China, with the help of chloroquine.
And in all Asian cases, without a dubious profit motive in favour of Big Pharma.
The smoking gun that demonstrates that the Macron system is not only incompetent to deal with Covid-19, but is also dragging the process so that Big Pharma can find a miraculous vaccine quickly, has not yet appeared.
But the pattern for discouraging chloroquine is more than previously exposed, in parallel with Raoult's demonization.