Is it possible that the Coronavirus has left the Wuhan virus lab?
Interesting.
The first thing you should do, if you have not already done so, is to read Guillermo García Alcaine's answer to this question.
Briefly summarize what is on the subject.
It should be understood that, in circumstances of this nature, disinformation is a mechanism that is set in motion immediately, with the participation of diplomats, politicians, journalists, scientists, experts of all kinds, and so on.
So the early answer to your question is that we don 't know where the virus came from, and we probably never will.
We will not even know with absolute certainty if within d
Let 's see, SARS-CoV2 is the second, as its own name indicates, that is, it' s a virus that has evolved or mutated, but this is a property of the vast majority of viruses, because not being cellular beings, they need host cells to host them, and that 's the reason for their infection.
But talking about manipulation, biological warfare, the intentionality of the pandemic, etc... seems to me at least very bold.
I see that this has come very well to many, especially to the governments of the world, in the hands of the ineffectual, who, because of their ineffectiveness, led us to ruin, and now they already have the
In the scientific sense I have to say that if possible but in the practical sense highly unlikely.
Accident of trying to manipulate the genetics of another coronavirus?
Some of its genetic code is similar to that of the SARS virus (SARS-CoV) but this is a different virus (SARS-CoV).
If the human being could possess both knowledge and to create a virus with properties intentionally we would already have the cure for cancer and bacterial infections (bacteria can also be affected by a virus and possibly this is the future of medicine - bacteriophages).
It is not possible because there is no evidence that it happened, because when a virus is manufactured in a laboratory, scientists know how to do it, whether it was artificial or not.
A Chinese television researcher recently came out saying it was made by a Chinese laboratory, but she did not provide any evidence.
Impossible, it's not.
But that does not mean that it is likely or, much less, that it can be demonstrated.
Nevertheless, the (de) management that China did first and the WHO did after, of the epidemic that then mutated into a pandemic, is too much to rank them as the main perpetrators of the world's current situation.
A long time ago the flu and other diseases came out of China.
He read a story from a Japanese scientist who worked for five years in Wuhan's lab that categorically states this.
Now that you can prove it will be "another rib flour."
I think
Many newspapers and news outlets speak of this possibility as a response to where Coronavirus originated.
Now it was to start a war, if it was an accident, if it was by mistake that is not known.
· The author has 119 responses and 9.9 K visits to his responses
First, I will define terminology.
We have three or more variables in this matter.
Thanks to Maria Gomez for suggesting this.
The pandemic called the Covid19 pandemic.
The disease is called 'Covid-19' or erroneously 'Covid'.
The virus that causes the disease, called
Formally 'SARS-CoV-2' or 'SARS-CoV-2' virus.
Common, wrongly and without adjectives' coronavirus', 'corona', 'virus', etc.
All infectious diseases have stages of development, and as soon as the vector of infection, say a virus, enters the organism, the immune system starts to destroy it if it detects it.
If there is no immunity p
By no means, and this is already demonstrated by what has happened in Italy and Spain.
As a new virus, all people on the planet are susceptible to getting sick from it.
While the lethality may not be as high (perhaps as close as 1% of those who get sick in the end), it is already estimated to be about 4 or 5 times the lethality of the flu virus, which kills around half a million people a year.
If you add to that that this virus is 2 to 3 times more contagious, without vaccines or people with immunity, without isolation measures, the number of people who