No, drinking too much alcohol doesn't "kill the virus" but increases the health risks if you get COVID-19
"Drinking alcohol will not protect you from COVIDE19 and could be dangerous," says the World Health Organization.
We get to the whatsapp number of Verify RTVE a short audio in which a young man is heard addressing his friends: "Hey, guys.
I have heard that in other countries you are drinking a lot of alcohol because they say it kills the virus.
Have you heard? "
That is absolutely false.
It is a hoax that has caused several deaths in other countries.
The World Health Organization (WHO) is very active on this issue.
DRUGS: Drinking alcohol will not protect you from COVIDE19 and could be dangerous.
Frequent or excessive consumption of alcohol can increase the risk of health problems "can be read on the section of their website where they collect" advice to the public about rumors about the new coronavirus (2019-nCoV) "
The Pan American Health Organization, a regional body of the WHO, published an article on its website on April 4 entitled "Alcohol does not protect against COVID-19 and its access must be limited during isolation."
The article clearly explains that "Fear and misinformation have generated the dangerous myth that high-concentration alcohol consumption can kill the COVID-19 virus.
It's not like that!
On this same page they offer a material prepared in conjunction with the WHO Regional Office for Europe.
These are two documents that address alcohol-related disorders and provide guidance during the pandemic.
Both can be downloaded in PDF format.
Both the fact sheet and the brochure explaining "what you should know about alcohol and covid-19."
Both documents insist, at the beginning and at the end, that "the most important thing you should remember is that drinking alcoholic beverages does not protect you at all from COVID-19 or will prevent you from contracting the virus."
These guides provide some interesting data on how alcohol affects health.
It can be read, for example, that it "has effects, both short- and long-term, on virtually all body organs" and that it "weakens the immune system."
In our country, the Ministry of Health, Consumption and Social Welfare published on 3 June a translated adaptation of the document originally published in English by the WHO European Regional Office in 2020 under the title "Alcohol and COVID-19: what you need to know."
The first of the recommendations contained in the brochure is clear: "Avoid alcohol consumption in order not to weaken your immune system and your health, and not to endanger the health of others."
Another point warns of the danger of mixing alcohol with drugs because "it can reduce its efficacy or increase its potency to a toxic or dangerous level."
For its part, the Spanish Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics, together with the General Council of Official Colleges of Dietists-Nutritionists published on 17 March a dynamic and open document with its recommendations on nutrition and nutrition for the Spanish population in the face of the health crisis of COVID-19.
They describe seven key recommendations in food.
The first is aimed at maintaining good hydration.
They state: "The consumption of alcoholic beverages, including wine or beer, is not recommended."
The Saludsinbulos.com website also collects a scientific article entitled "Alcohol does not protect from COVID-19" motivated by an advertisement from a winery promoting wine with fake news about properties against coronavirus.
The text is signed by Francisco Pascual Pastor, doctor in Medicine and Surgery at the Miguel Hernández University, Medical Coordinator of the Addictive Conduct Unit (UCA) of Alcoy, president of SOCIDROGALCOHOL and adviser to CAFE.
As for the mention in the audio shared by whatsapp that "in other countries you are drinking a lot of alcohol," we remember something we already published in one of our verifications.
And hundreds of people have died in countries like Iran, Turkey, and India from drinking alcohol adulterated in the belief that it would end the disease.
Conspiracy and anti-conspiracy groups have also promoted the consumption of the derivative MMS ("Miracle Mineral Solution") and chlorine dioxide, both of which are harmful to health, as explained in Verifica RTVE.
From Verifica RTVE we can conclude, following the scientific studies published so far, that taking alcoholic beverages does not cure or prevent COVID-19 but increases the risks to health.
We can also assure you that in countries such as India, Turkey, or Iran, alcohol-related deaths have been recorded for spurring such fake news.
This is a hoax.