There is no evidence to state that the current coronavirus was created in 2014 by an English institute.
This is not the only disinformation or myth circulating on social media about coronavirus.
On Friday afternoon, the National Health Minister, Ginés González García, confirmed the second death in Argentina by coronavirus.
This is a 61-year-old patient who came from Europe.
Amidst the spread of the virus, a video is circulating on WhatsApp and Facebook stating that the coronavirus "was created in the bioinformatics laboratories of the Pirbright Institute in 2014."
The video shows the alleged patent for this virus, which is the cause of COVID-19 disease.
This patent does not correspond to the new coronavirus strain, discovered in December 2019.
In addition, the Pirbright Institute itself denied this.
The misinformation was sent to be verified at least five times on Chequeado's WhatsApp (+ 54 9 11 3679-0690).
On Facebook, the video was played over 6,000 times.
Why what is stated in the video is false
The video is based on a patent application filed in 2014 and published in 2018 by the Pirbright Institute, a British centre dedicated to research and surveillance of viral diseases from farm animals and viruses that spread from animals to humans.
However, according to the institute itself in a statement published on its website, this patent does not correspond to the new coronavirus discovered in December 2019, but the institute conducts research on infectious bronchitis virus (IBV), a coronavirus that infects poultry and pig Deltacoronavirus that infects pigs.
In addition, the institution stated that it does not currently work with human coronavirus....
The Institute holds the Patent No.
10130701 covers the development of an attenuated (weakened) form of coronavirus that could potentially be used as a vaccine to prevent respiratory diseases in birds and other animals.
Many vaccines are made this way, from influenza to polio.
We have not yet developed a vaccine against VBI, but research is ongoing, "the institute says in its publication.
This was also verified by Maldito Bulo, a Spanish fact-checking site, and Politifact, an American fact-checking site, who concluded that this was disinformation, and that the strain the Pirbright Institute works with is not the same as the new coronavirus.
In addition, the video talks about something called "Event 201."
According to the video, this would be "a high-level pandemic exercise," but this is also a sham.
As Johns Hopkins University explained through a statement, Event 201 was a "pandemic simulation exercise" held in New York City on October 18, 2019 along with the World Economic Forum and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation in which no prediction was made about the current situation of coronavirus.
For the scenario, we modeled a fictional coronavirus pandemic, but we explicitly stated that it was not a prediction.
Instead, the exercise served to highlight the preparedness and response challenges that would likely arise in a very serious pandemic.
We do not predict that the nCoV-2019 outbreak will kill 65 million people.
Although our simulation exercise included a fake and novel coronavirus, the data we use to model the possible impact of that fictional virus is not similar to those of nCoV-2019, "explains Johns Hopkins University.
This is not the only disinformation or myth circulating on social media about coronavirus.
Chequeado has already refuted various falsehoods and has also published a series of certainties, communicated by national and international health agencies, about the virus.
All verified information is available on this note.
This check is part of Facebook's Third Party Fact-checker initiative in Argentina.
In the case of photos and videos we work with images made or taken from context and we always analyse the images together with the text with which they were presented.