Fact Checking: Can you catch coronavirus with a PCR test?
Can asymptomatic people not transmit Covid-19, so it is not necessary to wear masks?
Photo: Reuters
"We are getting sick through the test, as you get a sample, but rather in the test you are getting the V1RU5," is read in a Facebook post, which includes the cover of an article entitled "Nanorobot found in the PCR test."
Regarding the viral publication on the discovery of nanorobots in PCR tests, Nicolás Muena, a researcher at the Science Life Foundation, claims there are many errors in the news.
One is about these supposed "nanorobots."
Muena argues that this would be a concept more associated with science fiction, such as the illustration accompanying the publication that does not possess the dimensions mentioned in the body of the news.
The most "similar" would be nanomedicine.
Roberto Olivares, head of Infectology at Clinic Dávila, points out that unfortunately there are many people on social networks, "who perhaps through ignorance, unconsciousness and irresponsibility, spread news that is false, and have no scientific basis."
However, according to the Life Science researcher, this area would not be related to "robots," but rather to proteins, lipid nanoparticles, which would never reach dimensions as small as those described in the note (2.5 nanometers).
It's too small, even for nanomedicine.
Olivares points out that he has not seen published in any serious news portal, "which may be introducing nanorobots, osea is delusion.
It's not even false news, it's already delusional.
You have to be very careful where you get the information, because we 're inundated with news like this, which confuses public opinion..........
All this is false and there is no serious evidence to prove it. "
Fact Checking: Are people receiving a vaccine part of a clinical trial?
Is the end of the pandemic near and without vaccination?
Furthermore, at the point where he points out that they would have been found in the PCR test, Muena warns that it is impossible for the hyssop to break the blood-brain barrier as mentioned in the publication, and this would not be easy either, as this barrier is very selective about what happens or not by its structure.
"I refuse to participate in a medical conspiracy that says that wearing a mask is healthy and we all want healthy people to be sick and can make us all sick," is the text that has been circulated on social media.
Ignacio Silva, infectologist and academic of the Postgraduate Directorate of the Faculty of Medicine of the University of Santiago states that the claim is not correct, as it has been shown in various scientific publications that approximately one third of people infected with Covid-19 are asymptomatic, making asymptomatic people key agents in the transmission chain, because they are the most difficult to trace.
Olivares concorda, "is false.
The ability or efficiency of transmission may eventually be less than the symptomatic, but that does not mean that they cannot transmit the infection.
We already know that it is a virus that has a high ability to be transmitted, so there is a lot of evidence and serious work, where it is shown that one of the best weapons to care for us and prevent infection is the use of masks.
It's one of the most useful tools. "
It is for this reason, Silva argues, that the use of masks at all times becomes very important, and more so in these people who believe that they are not infected.
Moreover, regarding what continued to be the message on social media about how "unhealthy" it would be to use them, the Usach scholar says that their use is one of the measures that has helped us most to stop the pandemic.
It adds that they are extremely safe, especially in adults, and do not cause any complications related to other diseases or oxygenation problems.