Come in and put your most absurd conspiracy theory on COVID-19
Mine is that it's a simple biological weapons research experiment, promoted by Soros and Greta the Puppet to eradicate what they consider to be the greatest scourge on this planet: the human being.
This relatively light but highly contagious virus is launched (SARS and Influenza A failed earlier experiments), with the aim of making a mathematical and statistical analysis of its spread.
It is then combined with a truly deadly one, such as an Ebola-type 4-containing hemorrhagic fever or Marburg, and massive liquidation is achieved.
The second, less insane, theory could be that it was the US that aimed to end what they themselves imposed and so benefited from: globalization.
Aluminium glasses for me
USA Silver paper cap
It was Miguel Angel Revilla.
Created by Eeuu to boost the globalist economy.
Theory but not absurd.
The Ummitas created it.
Other:
Originally Written by Smy It Was Michelangelo Revilla
Terribly absurd, he molested me.
An attack by the elites to wipe out as many pensioners as possible.
A jihadist cell, that 's why one of the biggest outbreaks of it will go away, because that' s where it came out.
The Guapy-Presi of the Madrid community and the Carapola will not close the Madrid community to remove themselves "affected" and give a respite to the hospitals.
Imagine that this is a test to see how the whole system and its infrastructure respond and see to what extent you can fold society and see weak points.
Now imagine that you create a strain of virus that lasts 2 months of incubation and is contagious in the process even by air and also asymptomatic until it manifests, and then the symptoms are much worse than those of this coven 19 We would be fucked.
Savings on Pensions
It was Ilitri, who was given the forum of his hands.
many pensions, very sick chronic sucking the boat and very long lives..........
There's no chicken in the supermarkets.
The Chinese don't collect rice.
The gyms are closed.
A clear conclusion: International Judaism wants to take away our sheaths and make us catabolize.
A group of Catalan students from the chemical institute of Sarrià were in exchange with the university of Wuhan Alli discovered a new type of coronavirus COVID-19 that was spreading exponentially and took it out of hiding from the high-security laboratory Rompieron samples on the market just before returning to Catalonia waiting for the chain reaction 3 months later, in a masterstroke, its president Quim Torra calls for the confinement of all Catalonia.
What will Sanchez's useless do?
Option 1: Do not confine to Catalonia...
This would win votes in favour of independence in the most Spanish-speaking areas of Catalonia by saying, these useless ones prefer to kill Catalans before giving them a minimum of autonomy.
Option 2: It is confined to Catalonia and the people take it as a test of fire on independence... They are organised as they are organised for the Marathon, the CDRs have a support and social function, prove to everyone that they know how to manage better than when they are managed by the government of Madrid.
That would give votes to the Independents too..............
Do what Sanchez does, it's fucked... it's all part of a plan.
My absurd theory is that in China they wanted to ease the issue of social spending on the old and the sick, and in Wuhan they manufactured a virus specific to kill old and sick people that didn 't affect children or young people.
They ran away or planted it, that's no longer known.
Other:
Originally Written by javesp A group of Catalan students from the chemical institute of Sarrià were in exchange with the university of Wuhan Alli discovered a new type of coronavirus COVID-19 that was spreading exponentially and took it out of hiding from the high-security laboratory Rompieron samples on the market just before returning to Catalonia waiting for the chain reaction 3 months later, in a master stroke, its president Quim Torra calls for the confinement of all Catalonia.
What will Sanchez's useless do?
Option 1: Do not confine to Catalonia...
This would win votes in favour of independence in the most Spanish-speaking areas of Catalonia by saying, these useless ones prefer to kill Catalans before giving them a minimum of autonomy.
Option 2: It is confined to Catalonia and the people take it as a test of fire on independence... They are organised as they are organised for the Marathon, the CDRs have a support and social function, prove to everyone that they know how to manage better than when they are managed by the government of Madrid.
That would give votes to the Independents too..............
Do what Sanchez does, it's fucked... it's all part of a plan.