Treatments in hospitals were poisoned with hydroxychloroquine.
WHO stops trials with hydroxychloroquine at higher mortality
WHO stops trials with hydroxychloroquine at higher mortality
85% of Spanish hospital patients have been treated with the controversial hydroxychloroquine
One in five serious patients in Spain has died, a higher percentage than the Italian and a lower percentage than the United Kingdom.
85% of Spanish hospital patients have been treated with the controversial hydroxychloroquine
The hospitals and residences have functioned like death camps!!
The best health care in the world...
It can't be, but isn't that what Trumpito says you drink a couple of shots every day?
20,000 dead in public nursing homes.
There 's the crux of the thymovirus issue.
FDA communication on hydroxychloroquine: https: / / www.fda.gov / media / 137456 / download
The most interesting thing is this:
Note that hydroxychloroquine or chloroquine may:
Occur QT prolongation
Increased risk of QT prolongation in patients with renal failure or renal failure
Increases in insulin levels and insulin action resulting in increased risk of severe hypoglycaemia
Occasional hemolysis in patients with glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency
Interacting with other drugs that cause QT prolongation, even after discontinuation due to their long half-life of approximately 30 to 60 days
Hemolysis: destruction of hematites or red blood cells accompanied by release of haemoglobin,
Hydrochloroquine is not consumed alone, and those who have recommended it, including Trump, (if there is someone with better information than he, you would introduce me), would take it with Zinc and another product, in any case, if the medical community had followed the WHO recommendations, they would still be dying by thousands.
Medical treatments are already the first cause of death!
- No, no.
Danish expert warns drugs are the third cause of death
The pharmaceutical industry is causing more deaths than drug cartels
Everything starts to take color.
We are in a situation of total confusion, nothing we read or see can be believed as truth or as a lie, namely:
Scene A: Hydrochloroquine is a deadly poison that has been administered to people, worsening their health and even killing them.
Scenario B: Hydroxychloroquine is an effective, cheap, and quick remedy to eliminate the CV, making the mandatory vaccine unjustifiable.
WHO creates a disinformation campaign to ban its use.
Now, you 're having trouble breathing, you go to a hospital and they tell you you have a CV, what do you do?
Hydrochloroquine yes or no?
68 percent of excess deaths say that, if it 's true, I start to imagine where a lot of these have come from.
Given that Trump's disinfectant chupitas were known to be counter-productive, the owners, and the world's most ultra-modern health care, have decided to use it as a way to take a few off their hands.
Then they'll still have the balls to say they're not fucking murderers of our friends.
luckymiches said: We are in a situation of total confusion, nothing we read or see can be believed as truth or as a lie, namely: Scenario A: hydroxychloroquine is a deadly poison that has been administered to people, worsening their health and even killing them.
Scenario B: Hydroxychloroquine is an effective, cheap, and quick remedy to eliminate the CV, making the mandatory vaccine unjustifiable.
WHO creates a disinformation campaign to ban its use.
Now, you 're having trouble breathing, you go to a hospital and they tell you you have a CV, what do you do?
Hydrochloroquine yes or no?
What you have to do is not go to the hospital.
If you decide to put a cent coin behind the ear of all the dying, you come to the conclusion that putting a cent behind the ear kills.
The WHO's opposition to cheap, fast and effective treatment is already well known.
I don't believe in them anymore.
The WHO is owned by Bill Gates, who will soon sell / give us his vaccine (a vaccine that no one will inject if the CV is treated easily).
I will wait for the results obtained by small countries away from the core of their power.