Can I take ibuprofen in the midst of a Coronavirus crisis?
The coronavirus pandemic continues to expand around the world, and France has not been spared.
After Italy, Spain and Germany, Gaul is the fourth largest European country affected by the Covid-19, with around 4,500 affected (see interactive map).
In the face of such a situation, the neighbouring country has already taken some measures such as closing non-essential public places, the same situation as in Spain...........
However, through his Twitter account, the French Minister of Health, Olivier Véran, recommended that if you have symptoms such as fever, you should not take ibuprofen: "
In case of fever, take paracetamol.
Taking anti-inflammatory drugs such as ibuprofen or cortisone could be an aggravating factor of infection.
If you are already taking anti-inflammatory drugs or have doubts, see your doctor
# COVIDE19 | Taking anti-inflammatory drugs (ibuprofen, cortisone,...) could be a contributing factor to worsening infection.
If you have a fever, take paracetamol.
If you are already suffering from anti-inflammatory drugs or if you are in doubt, ask your doctor for advice.
But this claim has no scientific study to support or prove it.
This morning the hoax circulated as information supposedly coming from the University of Vienna, but this has denied it, it is false.
In addition, there is also a rumor that 4 serious young patients who had taken anti-inflammatory drugs such as ibuprofen have been admitted to the Toulouse Hospital.
Information that has been denied by the hospital itself is also false.
The claim of Olivier Véran, Minister of Health in France, is not supported by any public scientific study.
And he, when spreading it, doesn 't point to any private ones either.
The tweet continues to be posted..................
The drug belongs to the family of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, also known as NSAIDs.
As noted on the Kern Pharma website, NSAIDs have better tolerability but excess or poor consumption can have secondary effectors such as kidney damage or increased blood pressure.