Why the facial screen does not protect against COVID-19
In May, the obligation to wear masks was declared due to the health crisis caused by COVID-19.
Since then, there has been a great deal of variety in how to protect ourselves.
From surgical masks, FPP2, fabric or screens, they all provide protection to prevent this pandemic.
Still, do they offer us the same efficiency?
A study by Florida Atlantic University's Faculty of Computer Science and Engineering has sought to test the efficiency of facial displays.
To perform the research, they used a dummy and a laser light plate, together with a mixture of distilled water to simulate coughing.
In this way, they were able to visualize the droplets ejected from the mouth.
Thus, by observing the trace of the drops, they found that the screen did not hinder or stop their passage.
Tests show that these protectors are not entirely reliable, as respiratory drops can move relatively easily through the viewfinder.
In this way, they extend over the environment, reaching the face through the screen spaces.
It is believed that facial screens offer the same protection as surgical masks.
However, smaller particles, due to their size, have to follow the air flow patterns, so they do not become paralyzed on the protective screen.
In addition, this form of protection does not have a closure similar to that of masks, as the sides and the lower part are accessible to ambient particles.
Therefore, according to the study, to minimize the spread of Covid-19, it is preferable to use surgical or fabric masks instead of facial protectors.
In one of the tests conducted in the study, in a one-minute to half-hour exposure, the screen was only 23% effective, so it did not reduce the inhalation of ambient particles..
For this reason, the use of protective screens is recommended only as a complement to the surgical mask.
The findings of several studies confirm that the best method to protect us from Covid-19 is the use of masks in all its variants.
Both surgical and fabric masks act as shields before air particles.
INSURANCE INTEREST:
This is the Spanish masquerades with more lasting protection that can already be purchased.