Cyclosporin, the drug that reduces the chances of dying from COVID-19 by 81%
Cyclosporin, a promising treatment for patients hospitalized with COVID-19.
It is the main conclusion of a study conducted among 600 patients with coronavirus admitted to the University Hospital Quironsaldo in Madrid between March and April 2020.
The survival of patients treated with ciclosporin was higher than that of patients receiving other drugs
Coronavirus patients who were treated with ciclosporin at the University Hospital QuironHealth Madrid had an 81% less chance of dying than patients who received other drugs.
This is the main conclusion reached by the COVID-19 Research Group, led by the Internal Medicine Service of this hospital, together with the European University, following a study in which they have analysed the treatments received by more than 600 patients admitted to this health centre, from 10 March to 15 April 2020.
The patients included in this study suffered sufficiently severe respiratory impairment to require hospital admission.
We've analyzed their clinical characteristics and analyzed the treatments they received.
Our patients do not differ in the characteristics of other published series and the prognostic factors are similar (age, severity and extent of lung affect and some inflammatory parameters)...............
In relation to the treatments received, we have found that the survival of patients who were treated with ciclosporin was higher than those who were not treated with ciclosporin. In fact, in our series, patients who received ciclosporin were 81% less likely to die than patients who were not treated with ciclosporin, "explains Daniel Carnevali, head of the Internal Medicine Service of the University Hospital Quirónsolado Madrid and professor at the European University.
COVID-19 has a double pathogenicity: the first comes from its viral replication and occurs in the early stages of the disease.
Between the eighth and tenth days, some patients develop pneumonia and a predominant inflammatory effect in which the patient's own immune response is that which damages the lung.
To combat inflammation, several drugs have been postulated with the intention of reducing the activation of the immune system.
Steroids, tocilizumab and ciclosporin have been used at the University Hospital Quironsaldo Madrid.
The latter is a drug that has an anti-replicative action of the virus and is interesting because it modifies the immune response.
The characteristics of their patients are similar to those described by other groups: 69 average years, predominantly male, with similar associated comorbidity rates (47% hypertension; 16% diabetic; 22% heart disease; and 19% respiratory disease.
In their work, they have statistically evaluated variables that could be associated with death or survival at high.
Dr. Carnevali warns that coronavirus disease "does not yet have a standard treatment."
During the first stage of the pandemic we used therapies on which we had a reasonable expectation that they would have effect, but without clinical trials to validate them.
Antimalarial drugs such as hydroxychloroquine, antiviral drugs such as lopinavir-ritonavir, antibiotics, corticosteroids and drugs acting in the inflammatory phase of the disease such as tosilizumab and ciclosporin were used, "he explains.
The most surprising finding from our study is that patients who received ciclosporin had a higher survival rate than those who did not.
However, the results should be taken with caution.
Our study is retrospective, not a double-blind randomized trial that compared a drug to a drug.
What we have proven is that patients who have received ciclosporin are not essentially different from the rest of the patients, they had similar comorbidities and yet their clinical outcome has been better, "he concludes.
To carry out this study, different variables were analysed that could influence the outcomes of patients affected by Covid-19.
We did an analysis of factors that could influence patient mortality such as age, radiological score, need or not and the type of mechanical ventilation used, treatments... first in a univariate model and then in an adjusted model and observed that the fact that patients were treated with ciclosporin protected against mortality.
In fact, patients who had not received ciclosporin were 4.22 times more likely to die than those who had received this treatment, "explains Israel J. Thuisard, member of the European University's Methodological and Statistical Advisory Group.
Dr. Carnevali says they have found "indications" that ciclosporin could be a promising drug.
"To confirm this hypothesis, a clinical trial would be needed in which patients taking ciclosporin or placebo could be randomized," he said.