No, the government isn't going to geolocate you to see if you've completed the confinement.
The download of the self-assessment app 'COVID-19 Assistance' is voluntary.
Not exactly: the government is not going to geolocate your mobile to fight coronavirus and its expansion.
The development of a
that allows such geolocation, but it is not the same as the mobility study that the Executive is carrying out and does not geolocate "the whole" population.
The Secretary of State for Digitization and Artificial Intelligence, under the Ministry of Economic Affairs headed by Nadia Calviño, has published a standard in the Official State Bulletin authorizing the development of an application for mobile phones that will allow the user to perform self-assessment, based on the medical symptoms he reports, about the probability of being infected by COVID-19.
In addition, it should also be able to provide the user with information about COVID-19 and provide practical advice and recommendations for action to be taken as a result of the evaluation.
But the part that is most alarming citizens and has been viralized in WhatsApp groups is this: "The application will allow the geolocation of the user to the sole effects of verifying that he is in the autonomous community in which he declares himself," says the BOE of March 28.
However, it is stressed that the download and
COVID-19 residency is not mandatory.
What is also reported in this BOE is' DatacoVID-19 ', a study of mobility applied to the health crisis which aims to provide real information on the mobility of people in the previous days and during confinement.
For this purpose, it uses aggregated and anonymised data provided by telephone operators (Telefónica, Vodafone and Orange).
The goal of the study is to "understand population movements to see how dimensioned the health capabilities in each province are."
In other words, this document, which is being disseminated among the population, contains two key points:
The development of the mobile app 'COVID-19 Assistance' of the Government, which allows access to some personal data but which is downloaded voluntarily.
It uses data like the phone's GPS.
The development of a mobility study, 'DatacoVID-19', which uses aggregated and anonymised data from mobile phone operators to analyze the mobility of people in the previous days and during confinement.
is used for self-evaluation of COVID-19 and the study to analyze the infection and to better control the spread of the virus.
However, the standard published in the BOE indicates that the application will in no case constitute "a medical diagnosis, emergency care or prescription service for pharmacological treatments," nor "will it in any case replace consultation with a duly qualified medical professional."
From a legal point of view
La
collects personal data - such as name and surname, DNI... -, health data - the answers to self-assessment questions - and geolocation data, but this geolocation, as can be seen in the privacy policy, is optional, and is used only to confirm the Autonomous Community in which the individual is and to be able to redirect him to the health centres of the corresponding area, "says Javier Prenafeta, a specialist lawyer in Information Technologies of the firm 451.legal.
And he adds, "It's not said there, nor is the norm allowed, to use that geolocation to control movement and keep them at home, nor will it allow you to be persecuted and punished for that."
"There's nothing unusual about it, it's an expressly authorized - optional - treatment and no one forces you to install the application," he concludes.
The phrase "the application may include links to portals managed by third parties in order to facilitate access to information and services available through the Internet" has also generated some controversy.
Regarding it, Prenapeta states that "nothing seems hidden" and that it simply means that "links to external pages with information and other services will be included."
Possibly, to pages or applications of the Autonomous Communities or even to chatbot or web with information and advice that also points to the norm.
Regarding the mobility study, the lawyer explains, "the rule clearly states that aggregate data will be used, thus without linking to people.
This has already been done before, data on movements corresponding to subscribers in Spain are requested, without determining, without being able to know who they are, only to see flows.........
If it is done correctly, I see no problem from data protection because personal data are not communicated. "
Ministerial Order Takes Care of Health
The BOE of 28 March states that the provision is understood "without prejudice to the application of the regime provided for in Regulation (EU) 2016 / 679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and repealing Directive 95 / 46 / EC; Organic Law 3 / 2018 of 5 December, on the Protection of Personal Data and Guarantee of Digital Rights and the interpretative criteria adopted by the Spanish Data Protection Agency."