Why should we not wear gloves during the pandemic?
Wearing gloves can create a sense of apparent safety, however, the WHO does not recommend their use.
In the supermarket, park, or even shopping malls, people can be seen wearing latex gloves to protect themselves from the current pandemic; however, this is not as effective as it might appear.
The World Health Organization (WHO) stated in its "Basic Protection Measures against the New Coronavirus" guide that wearing rubber gloves when in public is not an effective way to protect against the virus.
What the organ recommends is to wash your hands frequently.
On the gloves, the WHO states that: "Putting them on does not prevent infection, because if you touch your face while wearing them, the contamination passes from the glove to the face and can cause infection."
Similarly, the European Centre for Disease Control and Prevention (ECDC) does not recommend to the general population the use of gloves to protect against SARS-CoV-2.
This is because there is insufficient scientific evidence to recommend its use to civil society, as it can prevent proper hand hygiene.
The institution has also warned that regular use of gloves can cause skin effects, as well as generate unnecessary waste that impact the environment.
In addition, according to a study conducted by
, on average, a person is touched on the face 20 times every hour, so even when gloves are used, if you come into contact with a dirty surface, there is a risk of getting infected with the virus.
It should also be borne in mind that COVID-19 is not transmitted through contact with the skin, but, according to WHO, is transmitted through droplets that leave the nose or mouth of an infected person by coughing, sneezing or speaking.
Then, an individual may contract COVID-19 by inhaling droplets from a person infected with the new coronavirus, or touch the face (eyes, nose or mouth) with dirty hands.
In this sense, gloves, which may also be dirty, do not provide protection.
An effective measure to protect against infection is to stay at least one meter away from other people and correct hand washing with water and soap or with an alcohol-based disinfectant.
Health personnel should wear gloves, why?
According to the newspaper France 24, unlike civil society, health professionals must wear latex gloves as part of their personal protection, such as masks, coats and protective lenses.
They should use these devices because they have direct contact with infected people and carry out risk procedures, such as tracheal intubation, respiratory screening and connecting fans that help patients keep them alive.
The European Centre for Disease Control and Prevention also recommends the use of gloves in hospital settings, as this helps reduce the risk of spreading pathogens.
The centre has also warned that these devices should not be used for prolonged periods or re-used when they are in single use.
In addition, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recommends its use in caring for a sick person, whether in the care of a person at home or in a non-medical setting.
In these contexts, the centres recommend:
Use disposable gloves to clean and disinfect areas surrounding the sick person.
Use disposable gloves when touching or having contact with blood, excretions, or fluids such as saliva, mucus, vomit, or urine.
Dispose of gloves in a bag basket after using them.
Do not disinfect or reuse gloves.
Wash your hands immediately after removing your gloves.