Dexamethasone against coronavirus: what is and what evidence is there that it works to treat covid-19 (and what are its limitations)
A drug that has been used since the 1960s has proven effective for covid-19.
A cheap and widely available drug in the world has become a hope for the treatment of serious patients with covid-19.
It is dexamethasone, a steroid drug that, when supplied in low doses, has proved to be one of the best advances in the fight against the virus, experts in the United Kingdom say they have proved it.
The drug is part of the world's largest test of pharmacological treatments that already exist and is trying to find out if they can work for coronavirus.
In the case of dexamethasone, the risk of death in serious patients who were already connected to artificial respirators decreased by one-third.
And in those who needed oxygen, the risk of death was reduced by a fifth.
Maybe you're also interested
Dexamethasone is a steroid drug.
In the United Kingdom, where more than 42,000 people have died by Tuesday, up to 5,000 lives could have been saved with this drug if it had been applied since the pandemic began, researchers say.
And the beneficial potential can be greater in the poorest countries that have a high number of covid-19 patients.
Dexamethasone is already used to reduce inflammation in a variety of other conditions.
In tests on covid-19, it has helped stop some of the damage that can occur when the body's immune system is overloaded while trying to combat coronavirus.
That body reaction to the virus, which generates a cytokine storm, can be deadly.
Dexamethasone helps serious patients, such as those who are connected to respirators.
Nearly 19 out of 20 patients with covid-19 in the UK recover from the disease without being hospitalized.
Of those entering, most also recover, but some may require oxygen or mechanical ventilation.
And these are the high-risk patients for whom dexamethasone has been effective.
The test, conducted by a team from Oxford University, administered dexamethasone to about 2,000 hospitalized patients and compared to 4,000 who did not receive treatment.
For patients requiring artificial respiration, the risk of death increased from 40% to 28%.
For patients who need oxygen, it reduced the risk of death from 25% to 20%.
This is the only drug so far that has been shown to reduce mortality and significantly reduce it.
It's a great breakthrough, "said the studio's chief investigator, Peter Horby.
Test director Martin Landray said that "there is a clear, very clear benefit" and explained that the results suggest that one could save a life by:
Treatment is up to 10 days with dexamethasone and costs about £5 (US $6.80) per patient.
So it essentially costs £35 (US $44) to save a life, "he said.
He also noted that dexamethasone "is a drug that is available worldwide."
Landray suggested that hospitalized patients could begin treatment without delay.
But it is not recommended for the general public to go to the pharmacies to take it home or consume it there.
Dexamethasone has shown no benefit for patients with mild symptoms of covid-19, who do not need mechanical or supplemental support for their breathing.
Researchers in the UK have tested existing drugs and how they work against covid-19.
The trial The Recovery Trial, which has been conducted since March, also analyzed the drug against hydroxychloroquine malaria, which was ruled out because it increases deaths and heart problems.
Meanwhile, the antiviral drug remdesivir, which seems to shorten recovery time for people with coronavirus, has already been distributed to health services.
The first drug tested to reduce deaths from covid-19 is not a new, expensive drug, but an old, cheap steroid.
That is something to celebrate, for it means that patients around the world could benefit immediately.
And that 's why the results of this trial have been published quickly, because the implications are very large worldwide.
Dexamethasone has been used since the early 1960s to treat a wide range of conditions, such as rheumatoid arthritis and asthma.
Half of coivd-19 patients who require a respirator do not survive, so reducing that risk by one-third would have a major impact.
The drug is administered intravenously in intensive care and in tablet form for patients with less severe illnesses.
So far, the only other drug tested to benefit coronavirus patients is remdesivir, which has been used for Ebola.
It has been shown to reduce the duration of coronavirus symptoms from 15 to 11 days.
But the evidence was not strong enough to show if it reduced mortality.
Unlike dexamethasone, remdesivir is a new drug with limited supplies and a price has not yet been announced.
You can now receive notifications from BBC World.
Download the new version of our app and activate it so you don't lose our best content.