Ask us about the 2015 Italian TV video RAI which is now shared by connecting it to COVID-19
You have asked us through our WhatsApp verification service (+ 34 682 58 96 64) for a video from RAI, the Italian television channel, in which the presenter mentions a coronavirus created in a Chinese laboratory from bats and mice.
We tell you what we know.
The experiment mentioned in the TGR Leonardo program of November 16, 2015 had been published four days earlier in the scientific journal Nature.
The article noted the findings of an investigation that managed to "infect bat coronavirus directly to humans."
Also, that coronavirus "related to SARS" could infect human cells.
The fragment of the video broadcast on Italian television has been picked up these days to justify the idea that the current strain of coronavirus has been created in a Chinese laboratory, among others by former Interior Minister Matteo Salvini.
However, there is no scientific evidence that the current strain of the virus was created in a laboratory.
On the contrary, the scientific community claims that SARS-CoV-2 has a natural origin.
Indeed, last February 19, The Lancet published a statement in which scientists from multiple countries condemned "conspiracy theories that suggest COVID-19 has no natural origin."
In addition, in a note added this March, the journal Nature has wanted to specify that the coronavirus mentioned in the article has nothing to do with the current one.
We are aware that this experiment is being used as a basis for unverified theories that the new coronavirus that causes COVID-19 was designed in a laboratory.
There is no evidence that this is true, "the note says.
Last March 25, the Italian newspaper Corriere della Sera published an article stating also that the current strain of the virus has a natural origin.
In addition, he cites the same RAI director, Alessandro Casarin, as explaining how the day's show used as a source "a publication of the journal Nature."
Casarin also pointed out that "only three days ago the same magazine clarified that the virus mentioned in the program, created in the laboratory, has nothing to do with the virus that causes Covid-19."
Sources