A medical study warns that covid-19 was circulating throughout Europe as early as December
A medical study warns that covid-19 was circulating throughout Europe as early as December
Has direction what that study did or is it like the phantom intermediary companies that hire Minister Illa by hand, which corrupt anyone??
In December he gave me a terrible chungo, 2 weeks fucked up, 3 days in bed, I couldn't breathe and laugh anymore.. fucked up throat, cough, fever... and a body pain from the fingernails to the tip of the hair, I got the taste, let's go that nothing had taste... and as I have already commented.. I am a person who takes care of.. he looks like a seasonal flu... but NONE gave me that way.
He has been touring the world since September 2019...
I spent the first week of December.
My daughters and my wife came on a trip via Barcelona, my wife nothing further down told me that half a plane was rolling with drought... which had drawn her attention.
At fifteen days my two daughters and my wife were coughing, and I was serving the first week of December with the worst aphony and lanrigitis of my life... literally without a voice.
They had to pinch me to get some voice back.
My five-month-old drink then just like me, you're a bitch and the poor guy has no voice.
He left us... and the month came back, both the boy and I had a fever peak of 38 and a peak... two consecutive days... we were surprised in me that I rarely had a fever, and that at 37, 3 I am already dying... for two consecutive days.
A week with flu... and he's gone completely.
The cough between December and the end of January never left...
My daughters and my wife also returned, but softer than my nephew and me...
The bichito takes great turns around the world... and already has a lot in November-December.
If you hear Frank Cuesta at Fedecojo's house... he said it very clearly: in August people stop consuming pangolin because they knew that the person who was consuming it was sick.
And we stop seeing pangolins for the markets.
If they test antibodies, half the population already has them...
And in Italy, and in France...
France.
They detected "+ a covid19" in a December 27 pneumonia sample (ergo "infected" about 3 weeks earlier).
And I predict that if we study samples from 10 or 20 years ago, there will also be "covid19."
The test gives a 7% "+," tests the sample that tests:
Critical reading of prospectus screens and literature on "SARS tests Cov 2" ("Covid19") | Learn before agreeing to one of these tests
The tests are parents.
Many "studies" on covid-19 are currently being published without contrast, and most likely are erroneous.
Watch it.
Between researchers seeking funding and journalists chasing sensational news, we have the current information chaos.
I think it 's been half a country or more, say what you say.
A study not to blame China.
AYN RANDiano2 said: And in Italy, and in France... France.
They detect "+ a covid19" in a pneumonia sample from December 27 (ergo "infected" about 3 weeks earlier) and I predict that if we go to study samples from 10 or 20 years ago there will also be "covid19."
The test gives a 7% "+," tests the sample that tests: Critical reading of prospect screens and literature on "SARS Cov 2 tests" ("Covid19") | Learn before consenting to one of these tests The tests are parents.
Click to expand...
Well, I wouldn't tell you that not... as seen, the coronavirus family seems to be old enough to be known to our Western virologists... and that about 10-15% of seasonal flu is caused by a bug in this family...
Come on if that virus had been circulating since Metallica's first demo, from then on they stopped molar.
The sooner the better, it would mean that it is less serious than if everything had happened in March.
Pajirri said: In December he gave me a terrible chungo, 2 weeks fucked, 3 days in bed, it was hard for me to breathe and laugh and I don't even tell you anymore.. shit from the throat, cough, fever... and a body pain from the fingernails to the tip of the hair, it was my taste, let's not taste anything... and as I have already commented.. I am a person who takes care.. it achaque to a seasonal flu... but NONE gave me that way.
Many have already suffered the covid
Navarrete said: A study not to blame China.
The Levites are so jajaja
AYN RANDiano2 said: And in Italy, and in France... France.
They detect "+ a covid19" in a pneumonia sample from December 27 (ergo "infected" about 3 weeks earlier) and I predict that if we go to study samples from 10 or 20 years ago there will also be "covid19."
The test gives a 7% "+," tests the sample that tests: Critical reading of prospect screens and literature on "SARS Cov 2 tests" ("Covid19") | Learn before consenting to one of these tests The tests are parents.
Click to expand...
1 minute video.
Frozen blood from 2017 is positive to mideast.
So how the tests work...
To the wind!