Why is coronavirus so dangerous?
First, coronavirus is a type of virus, the latter is an intracellular parasite.
It 's not a cell, it' s a microbe, it 's a machine that to replicate requires the cell of a living organism to do it.
The range in interaction with specific receptors on the surface of the invaded cell determines the range of infection of a virus.
It is primitive, based on RNA, and is quite prevalent in animals.
The coronavirus has been known for decades in actual animals.
2002 was the first known case in us, (originating in China), the vector was a wall.
Information taken from the official site of the Secretariat of Health, the Government of Mexico and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention - CDC.
The coronavirus family is very broad, but only four of them, the alpha, beta, gamma, and delta subtypes, are the only ones capable of causing disease in humans (apparently COVID-19 belongs to the beta group).
Occasionally, coronaviruses that infect animals evolve, become capable of transmitting to humans and also from person to person, becoming a new strain of coronaviruses capable of causing disease in humans.
It 's a virus that comes from animals.
It 's called a corona for the front view, but it' s actually spherical.
This, like other coronaviruses, is suspected to have happened to man by eating an infected animal without being, or being ill, cooked.
The coronavirus is initially housed in the mouth, throat and nose for a few days.
This is why taste and smell are lost.
For this reason it is convenient to make garages with honey and lemon, boiled water with salt, water and red pepper, or apple and honey.
Also with chopped betadine (from the one used for flavoring), propolis and honey, or water and wine
Let 's see, let' s get something straight, contagion waves are created, they don 't happen naturally.
Not at least in a non-seasonal virus as it appears to be covid (other viruses that are more climate-dependent, there are seasonal waves.
Dengue waves in mosquito seasons, flu waves and pneumonia in winter).
However, in the case of the covid the waves are given according to the measures that are taken, if you did nothing at the beginning and then you took strong measures (Spanish and Italian) and then relax the waves because you think that everything is already under control with only 5% of the infected population....
Well, he's going to give you a wave:
So far, a mutation has been investigated between a virus present in bats and a virus present in snakes, which came into contact in the Wuhan animal market.
There are several conspiracy theories.
It's your decision to read them and think.
On January 22, 2020, the Journal of Medical Virology published a report with genomic analysis of the virus that reflects that snakes in the Wuhan area are the most likely reservoir of the virus; however, more research is needed to make this possibility certain.
On January 26, an investigation was initiated to study