EU Approves Emergency Use of Trump-Administered 'Antibody Cocktail'
Expand
The Antibody cocktail from Regeneron Pharmaceuticals received an emergency use authorisation from US drug regulators this Saturday for the treatment of the first symptoms of COVID-19.
With this, doctors have a new tool in the growing arsenal against SARS-CoV-2.
The treatment, administered to President Donald Trump after he contracted COVID-19 in October, consists of two monoclonal antibodies directed to the peak protein that uses the SARS-CoV-2 virus to enter cells.
Trump was treated with the drug on the basis of a compassionate use request employed by his doctors.
"In a clinical trial of patients with COVID-19, casirivimab and imdevimab, administered together, were shown to reduce COVID-19-related hospitalizations or emergency room visits in patients at high risk of disease progression within 28 days of treatment compared to placebo," the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) said in a statement.
"The safety and efficacy of this research therapy for use in the treatment of COVID-19 is still being evaluated," he added.
Results of the trial published by Regeneron in October showed that the drug can help treat patients outside the hospital, reducing virus levels and the need for more medical care.
Previous results, published in September, pushed Regeneron executives to contact the FDA to request emergency use authorization.
An emergency use authorization is different from an FDA approval, the agency noted.
Its decision comes when cases, hospitalizations, and deaths in the EU are on the rise.
A similar antibody therapy by Eli Lilly received emergency FDA approval on November 9.
"The FDA remains committed to advancing the nation's public health during this unprecedented pandemic," Commissioner Stephen Hahn stressed in the statement.
"Allowing these treatments with monoclonal antibodies can help ambulatory patients avoid hospitalization and relieve the burden of our health care system," he said.