No, with Decree 497 of 2020 the government did not order compulsory quarantine from 1 November
A few days ago, the following message was broadcast through WhatsApp networks: "Return and play, for the indiscipline of most citizens; return mandatory quarantine from 1 November; throughout the national territory; according to decree 497 of the President of the Republic (sic)."
The information has also been shared in Facebook groups such as' Colombians in Panama '(sic) and' Venezuelans in Medellín Anuncios', and in some trinos.
In some versions, users have added comments such as: "Some say it is a government strategy to stop social protest over the discontent of the national guilds which is growing."
And others have circulated snapshots of alleged El Tiempo newspaper holders that support the information.
But everything is false.
First, the alleged news was denied by the Ministry of Health on its social media.
"It is not true that the Government has decided to implement new quarantine anywhere in the national territory," says a trino published on the morning of 26 October.
Don't fall for fake news!
It is not true that the Government has decided to implement new quarantines anywhere in the national territory.
Always consult all information and measures taken to tackle COVID-19 on official @MinSaludCol channels pic.twitter.com / 2UbdJgjqlR - MinSaludCol (@MinSaludCol) October 26, 2020
Second, misinformation leads to two mistakes.
On the one hand, Decree 497 of 2020, which supposedly dictates quarantine, actually has nothing to do with the pandemic.
It was signed on March 30 to appoint Felipe Coral Duque as the principal representative of President Duque on the Board of Directors of Metropous, the company responsible for the infrastructure and operation of the integrated medium capacity mass transit system in the Aburá Valley, and to accept the resignation of two alternate representatives.
On the other hand, the photograph used to point out that the new compulsory quarantine will be "from 1 November to 19 November," was initially used as a miniature image of a video about the first total quarantine decreed by Duke, in late March.
So, we consider the messages from WhatsApp and other social media that state that the National Government has decreed a mandatory quarantine as of November 1 to be false.
Update
After the publication of this article, on 28 October, President Duque announced that the phase of selective isolation with responsible individual distancing would extend until 30 November, although initially it ended on 31 October.
It should be clarified that this provision, ordered by Decree 1168 of August 25, does not provide for compulsory quarantine, but for measures such as selective isolation in municipalities of high concern (provided the mayor so decides and with the authorization of the Ministry of the Interior and Health), and the prohibition of activities in "bars, discotheques and dance places" and "consumption of intoxicating drinks in public spaces and commercial establishments."
This decision of the National Government has no effect on the dissemination of misinformation announcing this mandatory quarantine order throughout the country.
They're still fake.