FDA revokes emergency use authorization for hydroxychloroquine to treat covid-19
(CNN) - The U.S. Food and Drug Administration revoked its emergency use authorization for the drugs hydroxychloroquine and chloroquine for the treatment of covid-19.
After reviewing the current available drug research, the FDA determined that the drugs do not meet "the legal criteria" for emergency use authorization, as they are unlikely to be effective in treating covid-19 according to the latest scientific evidence, the agency said on its website Monday.
MIRA: "Hydrochloroquine was indispensable in Guayaquil," says the former mayor
"The FDA has concluded that, based on this new information and other information discussed in the attached memorandum, it is no longer reasonable to believe that oral formulations of HCQ and CQ can be effective in treating covid-19, nor is it reasonable to believe that the known and potential benefits of these products outweigh their known and potential risks," FDA Chief Scientist Denise Hinton wrote Monday in a letter to Gary Disbrow of the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority (BARDA).
"Accordingly, the FDA revokes the authorization for the emergency use of HCQ and CQ to treat covid-19," Hinton wrote in the letter.
As of the date of this letter, oral formulations of HCQ and CQ are no longer authorized by the FDA to treat covid-19.
FDA emergency use authorization for hydroxychloroquine and chloroquine was limited in scope, applied only to patients hospitalized with covid-19 and only to drugs donated to the National Strategic Reserve.
MIRA: Does hydroxychloroquine work against coronavirus?
In an open letter published at the end of last month, FDA commissioner Dr. Stephen Hahn seemed to defend the agency's decision to issue the authorization.
This decision was based on the evaluation of U.S. criteria and the scientific evidence available at the time.
We continue to analyse the data on hydroxychloroquine and chloroquine and will make future determinations on these products based on available evidence, including ongoing clinical studies, "Hahn said in the letter last month.
Emergency use authorization, or US, facilitated the distribution of pills donated to the national reserve to coronavirus patients.
Hahn added in the letter that "we also knew it was important to help ensure a stable supply of drugs for patients with lupus and rheumatoid arthritis given the highest demand."
In an interview with CNN last month, Hahn also defended his agency's handling of hydroxychloroquine.
He acknowledged the political climate surrounding drugs, but said, "I back our decisions because I believe they are based on science and data, and we will continue to re-evaluate."