There is no evidence that coronavirus has weakened, according to WHO
Maria Van Kerkhove, Technical Director of the WHO Health Emergency Programme.
The World Health Organization states that there is no evidence that coronavirus has weakened, either in transmission or severity.
The WHO response follows the claims of one of Italy's leading doctors who has been at the forefront of the pandemic in Lombardy, the country's most affected region.
According to Alberto Zangrillo, director of the San Rafael Hospital in Milan, the virus no longer exists in Italy.
In addition, she says that the study on which she supports her claims will be published next week.
Meanwhile, the Italian government is calling for prudence in the midst of the country's re-opening after confinement, and other experts, such as Leana Wen, an emergency physician and professor of public health at George Washington University, point out that Zangrillo's suggestion is "potentially dangerous."
The World Health Organization clarified that there is no evidence that coronavirus has lost power, despite statements by Alberto Zangrillo, head of the San Raffaele Hospital in Milan, Lombardy, the country's most affected region.
"In terms of transmissibility, this has not changed, in terms of severity, this has not changed," insisted Maria Van Kerkhove, WHO technical director, as she points out.............. "....
So far, there is no evidence that the new coronavirus has changed significantly with respect to how it is transmitted or evolved.
Not even on the backs of Dr Zangrillo, who personally attends to Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi, and claims that from a clinical point of view, the virus no longer exists in Italy.
It has also been supported by his colleague Matteo Bassetti, director of the infectious diseases unit at the San Martino Hospital in Genoa, who argues that the samples taken in the last 10 days have a significantly lower viral load.
"We have never said that the virus has changed, we said that the interaction between the virus and the host has definitely changed," he says after announcing that the study by scientist Massimo Clementi will be published "next week."
In it, experts compare patient virus samples with COVID-19 at the Milan-based hospital in March with patient samples with the disease in May.
"The result [of the study] was unequivocal: an extremely significant difference between the viral load of patients admitted in March compared to those admitted last month," he explains.
Read more: From blood clots to foot eruptions: the medical mysteries of the coronavirus remain unsolved
Although it is not unusual for viruses to mutate and adapt as they spread, several genetic studies of SARS-CoV-2 point to the identification of more contagious strains and their broad ability to adapt in particular to each host - making it four times more dangerous than SARS of 2002.
Something that the health professionals consulted by the agency agree with.
According to Martin Hibberd, professor of emerging infectious diseases at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, with data from over 35,000 complete virus genomes, there is currently "no evidence" that there is a significant difference in gravity - so it would not be becoming less powerful.
Read more: The race to find the cure for coronavirus is accelerating: the 12 most important dates of June, from new vaccine data to antibody treatment testing
However, other authors consider their statements to be quite implausible for the same genetic reasons for the virus as previously discussed, endorsed by Oscar MacLean of the University of Glasgow's Virus Research Centre.
"The Italian doctor's suggestion is potentially dangerous, as it provides a false security based on no evidence," stressed Leana Wen, an emergency physician and public health professor at George Washington University, who said:
The same reasons why the Italian government has called for caution on doctors who agree with Zangrillo not to confuse Italians:
"Pending scientific evidence to support the thesis that the virus has disappeared, I invite those who say they are sure not to confuse Italians," said Sandra Zampa, Under-Secretary of the Italian Ministry of Health in a statement.