Do the sulfur emissions from Wuhan, China, point to the mass cremation of coronavirus victims?
On February 8, 2019, a well-shared Hilo on Twitter claimed that the "data" showed a massive increase in sulfur emissions in Wuhan, China.
The thread further suggested that a probable explanation for this supposed observation was the cremation of bodies associated with the outbreak of the new coronavirus originating in that region:
The Sun and El Expreso, among other media, uncritically repeated this claim, despite its dubious origins.
Both media then deleted their stories without a correction note at the time of our report.
The Sun, for example, described the image above as showing the "extent of corpse burning in Wuhan."
That premise is fatally flawed for at least two reasons.
First and most significantly: the data presented are not a real-time observation of sulfur concentrations above Wuhan.
Instead, the image is a computer model designed to predict, based on historical knowledge of the area and its current atmospheric conditions, what concentration of sulfur is present in the air at a given time and place.
Second, sulfur is not a significant emission of human cremation.
However, it is a significant emission from coal burning in power plants or for other industrial uses such as iron and steel production.
The area directly below the access point On the Twitter thread is shown, in fact, the Wuhan Iron Steel Company.
Problem one: it 's not a real observation of sulfur dioxide concentrations.
The source of the data highlighted on the Twitter thread is a company called Windy.com, which combines various weather models and inputs to create global weather maps aimed primarily at people who practice outdoor sports.
Windy, in turn, obtains his sulfur data from a NASA climate model called GEOS-5.
Arlindo da Silva, a research meteorologist at NASA's Office of Global Modelling and Assimilation, told the British Fact-Finding Organization that GEOS-5 sulfur dioxide models do not "assimilate real satellite data" into their forecasts.
Instead, he said, "Our forecasts are based on fixed emissions inventories," which "do not take into account daily variations in SO2 emissions and, as such, cannot take into account sudden changes in human activity."
The sulfur fluctuations present in the GEOS-5 model come from "variations in weather conditions, particularly winds."
High levels of industry.
in the region - Wuhan Iron Steel Company - are probably the cause of the larger "emissions inventories" prescribed by the model for the Wuhan region.
Problem two: sulphur emissions are not a significant factor in cremation
The twitter viral thread claims that "sulfur dioxide [is] commonly associated with burning organic matter."
This is a technically correct statement which is extremely misleading in this context.
Sulphur dioxide is commonly associated with coal burning.
Coal, formed from the carbon compounds of dead plant material buried and naturally heated on the earth for millions to hundreds of millions of years, is in fact an example of "organic matter" that, when burned, can release sulfur dioxide.
Humans, although also an example of organic matter, contain an insignificant amount of sulfur.
Carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, calcium and phosphorus.
more than 99% of all chemicals in the human body, leaving less than 1% for anything else, including sulfur.
Sulphur in coal comes predominantly from geological processes that occur over millions of years.
As such, a recently deceased body, when burned, will not generate a large amount of sulfur compounds, even if there are live satellite measurements to document the release of chemicals (which do not exist).
Cremation and Coronavirus
None of this means that there has been an increase in cremation in areas of China affected by the spread of coronavirus.
On February 2, 2020, the Chinese government announced that all funerals for victims of viral infection were banned, stipulating that cremation would be required for their bodies.
However, the suggestion that satellite data provide a measurable signal of cremation increases is based on two fundamental misunderstandings about the atmospheric model in question and the chemistry used to interpret it.
As such, we call this claim "false."