EXCLUSIVE: A study suggests that dengue may give some immunity to COVID-19
RIO DE JANEIRO, September 21 (Reuters) - A new study that analyzed the coronavirus outbreak in Brazil has found a link between the spread of the virus and previous dengue outbreaks, suggesting that exposure to mosquito-borne disease may provide a certain level of immunity to COVID-19.
ARCHIVE PHOTO: A masked man walks next to an illustration of the coronavirus from a scientific center in Oldham, UK.
3 August 2020.
A study led by Miguel Nicolelis, a professor at Duke University, which has not yet been published and has been shared exclusively with Reuters, compared the geographic distribution of coronavirus cases with the spread of dengue between 2019 and 2020.
Areas with lower rates of coronavirus infection and slower case growth were the places that had experienced intense outbreaks of dengue this year or earlier, Nicolelis discovered.
"This surprising finding raises the intriguing possibility of a cross-immunological response between dengue flavivirus serotypes and SARS-CoV-2," concluded the study, referring to antibodies to dengue virus and the new coronavirus.
"If proven correct, this hypothesis could mean that dengue infection or immunization with an effective and safe dengue vaccine could produce some level of immunological protection" against coronavirus, he added.
Nicolelis told Reuters that the results are particularly interesting, because previous studies have shown that people with antibodies against dengue in their blood can give false positives to antibodies against COVID-19, even if they have never been infected with coronavirus.
"This indicates that there is an immunological interaction between two viruses that no one could have expected, because the two are from completely different families," Nicolelis said, adding that more studies are needed to prove the connection.
The study was to be published prior to peer review on the MedRxiv preprint server and will be presented to a scientific journal.
It highlights a significant correlation between the lower incidence, mortality, and growth rate of COVID-19 in populations in Brazil where levels of antibodies against dengue were higher.
Brazil ranks third in the world in COVID-19 infections, with more than 4.4 million cases, behind only the United States and India.
In states like Paraná, Santa Catarina, Rio Grande do Sul, Mato Grosso do Sul and Minas Gerais, with a high incidence of dengue last year and earlier this year, COVID-19 took much longer to reach a high level of transmission in the community compared to states like Amapá, Maranhão and Pará which had fewer cases of dengue.
The team found a similar relationship between dengue outbreaks and a slower spread of COVID-19 in other parts of Latin America, as well as in Asia and islands in the Pacific and Indian Oceans.
Nicolelis said his team made the discovery of dengue by accident, during a study focused on how COVID-19 spread across Brazil, in which they discovered that roads played an important role in the distribution of cases across the country.
After identifying certain case-free points on the map, the team searched for possible explanations.
A major breakthrough was achieved when the team compared the spread of dengue with that of coronavirus.
It was a shock.
It was a total coincidence, "Nicolelis said.
In science, that happens, you shoot at something and hit a target you never imagined you'd get close to.