Aspirin can protect against coronavirus, according to an Israeli study
Aspirin.
A study by Israeli researchers found that aspirin, one of the oldest and most common drugs available, has properties to prevent coronavirus infections.
The research found that in an Israeli PCR test sample, patients taking small doses of aspirin were 29% less likely to be positive.
The studies cross-referenced 10,477 results with medical records covering the preventive drugs taken by patients.
"We were very excited to see a large reduction in the proportion of people who gave positive, and this gives a promising indication that aspirin, a drug so well known and affordable, can be useful in fighting the pandemic," said Milana Frenkel-Morgenstern of Bar-Ilan University.
In addition to concluding that people who take aspirin are less likely to be diagnosed with the virus, Frenkel-Morgenstern gave another "important" finding: aspirin users who are diagnosed with coronavirus are likely to have a shorter illness of about two days.
Researchers also found that those infected with covid-19 who take aspirin are less likely to suffer the consequences of coronavirus.
In June, another study concluded that vitamin D gave people a great boost in the fight against coronavirus.
This analysis was followed by similar claims by many other researchers.
The study of aspirin focused on people who take infant doses of 75 milligrams of the drug for primary prevention of cardiovascular disease, but who are not yet suffering from it.
Results were adjusted to take into account age and comorbidity.
The research was conducted by Bar-Ilan, Leumit Health Services and Barzilai Medical Center, and their findings have been published in FEBS magazine.
"This observation of the possible beneficial effect of low doses of aspirin on covid-19 infection is preliminary but seems very promising," said Professor Eli Magen de Barzilai, lead author of the study.
Frenkel-Morgenstern added that the mechanism through which aspirin apparently reduces the risk of infection is still unknown, but believes it shortens the duration of the disease due to its anti-inflammatory qualities.
For his part, Dr. Eugene Merzon, Leumit's leading scholar who worked on the report, said that despite the limitations of an observational study, unlike a complete clinical report, infection rates can be considered an indication that aspirin can be potentially important in the fight against covid-19.
"The fact that we have seen that it is not only the probability of infection, but also the duration of the disease points to the possibility of benefits, in biological terms, from taking aspirin," he said........
Frenkel-Morgenstern concluded by stating that this is a preliminary investigation, which he hopes will lead to an additional study, and stressed that he does not recommend that people self-medicate aspirin.
Drugs that do not work
From the arrival of the coronavirus and its spread in Colombian territory, the remedies that promise its cure arrived.
Doctors have repeatedly insisted that it is not safe to take drugs without medical prescription or that they do not have a health record, much less if it is a formula that came through social media, recommended by a acquaintance or found on an internet blog, among other channels.
In this order of ideas, the National Institute for Drug and Food Surveillance (Invima), issued a new health alert on the fraudulent marketing of the Remdesivir 100 mg product, also known on the market as Bemsivir, which has been "promoted to prevent, treat, mitigate or cure covid-19  disease, assured health authority.
"The institute calls on citizens to refrain from purchasing and using this product," says the health alert.
Invima warned that it is an illegal product in the light of the entity and that it may contain ingredients that affect consumers' health.
According to the health legislation currently in force in the country, "it is a fraudulent product, which is not covered by a health record and does not offer guarantees as to its quality, safety and efficacy."
Invima explained that it is important for people to bear in mind that the only medicines to prevent SARS-CoV-2 that are authorized in Colombia are vaccines used under the National Vaccination Plan.