Does Covid-19 predict vitamin D?
Some studies have suggested that vitamin D is able to protect us from Covid-19 -
This year vitamin D has received a lot of attention because some studies have suggested that it can protect us from Covid-19.
Is this true?
To answer this question, we first need to explain what this hormone is and why it serves.
Vitamin D (cholecalciferol) is present in some foods and can also be consumed as a medicine or supplement.
It is synthesized in the skin by ultraviolet B (UVB) rays from the sun.
Among other functions, it reduces inflammation, as it inhibits the proliferation of cells that favor this process and strengthens our immune system, which defends us from infections.
Several studies have found that low levels of vitamin D are associated with higher risk and worse clinical course of infection.
Multiple research suggests that a sufficient vitamin D supply could protect against SARS-CoV-2 infection.
These are ecological studies, which make international global comparisons with aggregated data by country.
In other words, they do not analyze individuals.
This makes them serve only to suggest hypotheses, but not to prove them.
Within individualized studies, observational studies predominate, where researchers simply collect data from thousands of participants.
Another alternative would be randomized intervention trials, in which researchers intervene, randomly assigning different diets to participants.
Random assignment ensures that they are being compared to equal groups.
In this context, ecological studies find that countries with lower mean levels of vitamin D, or lower exposure to UVB solar radiation, have exhibited higher Covid-19 mortality.
In the case of aggregate (ecological) data, this cannot be demonstrated.
Prevention is not treated
Good observational studies, already individualized, have found that groups with vitamin D deficiency had a higher risk of hospitalization and Covid-19 mortality.
In addition, there has been an inverse correlation between vitamin D levels and the severity of the disease: higher vitamin D levels, lower severity.
But correlation is not causality.
However, both observational studies and randomized trial interventions prior to the pandemic already showed that higher levels of vitamin D lead to lower risk of viral infections of the respiratory tract..
With respect to Covid-19, several observational studies have found that people with lower levels of vitamin D are more likely to have a poor prognosis for SARS-CoV-2 infection.
The biological plausibility of this association has not been called into question, as its immunomodulating effect of vitamin D influences the response to infections.
These arguments are already evidence of causality, which could be corroborated by trials.
Several randomized clinical trials are currently underway to assess the effect of adding vitamin D to the treatment of these patients.
Available scientific evidence suggests a possible preventive effect, but not that vitamin D is a valid treatment for COVID-19.
Solar exposure
As explained in the book What Do You Eat?, few foods naturally contain significant amounts of vitamin D:
- fatty fish (tuna, trout, salmon, caballa) and fish liver oils.
- veal liver, cheese and egg yolks have small amounts of vitamin D, mainly in the form of vitamin D3 and its metabolite 25 (OH) D3 (the metabolites are substances produced during metabolism).
-mushrooms and mushrooms provide varying amounts of vitamin D2.
Exposure to the sun before cooking increases these levels, so some of the mushrooms available on the market have been previously treated with ultraviolet light.
-Milk and juices are artificially enriched (and so are their labels).
Most people cover their vitamin D needs partially or totally by solar exposure.
An exposure of 10 to 30 minutes (it takes more time in winter than in summer), in particular between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m., daily or at least twice a week, with face, arms, hands and legs exposed, without sun filter or protective creams leads to a sufficient synthesis of vitamin D.
But older people and those with dark skin are less able to produce vitamin D through solar exposure.
It is important to note that UVB radiation does not penetrate the glass, so solar exposure through a closed window does not serve at all.
But vitamin D does not act alone.
It is part of a large orchestra.
For the orchestra to function well, it is not enough to have an excellent soloist; all instruments must be well tuned.
They are the remaining micronutrients that contribute to resistance to infections (zinc, calcium, vitamin C and many other antioxidants and anti-inflammatory agents).
Both in the study Seguimiento Universidad de Navarra and in PREDIMED, an adequate monitoring of the Mediterranean diet ensured an adequate contribution of the set of micronutrients.
The food pattern is a determinant of Covid-19 and it is surprising that no one is talking about it at this time.
Miguel A. Martinez.
University of Navarra.
Martin Calvo.
Professor hired doctor.
Preventive Medicine and Public Health, University of Navarra.
This article was originally published in The Conversation.