Scientists warn coronavirus covid-19 may be weakened
It sounds complicated when numbers around the world are rising, when Latin America, and especially Colombia, count thousands of their daily infections, but scientists believe that coronavirus covid-19 would be weakening.
And it is difficult to understand, but that would be not because of the contagion and death toll curve, but for other reasons explained in a report by the Spanish newspaper ABC.
The newspaper says, citing experts, that the only measure is not the number of infected people but other facts such as the latest clinical pictures would be lighter now than when the highest peak of the pandemic in Europe was experienced.
The report states that outbreaks are now less aggressive and that this could mean that mutations, although relatively stable, are not as lethal.
They cite as an example that other viruses such as SARS or MERS suffered is a process.
"It is key to continue to do sequencing studies that can confirm what evolution the virus is experiencing," says the source.
Another factor could be the expected arrival of summer, which changes environmental conditions and impacts the disease, especially by the effect of UV radiation.
That and the best knowledge of the virus, forced to confront it daily and learn its characteristics, would cause the weakening.
Another argument is sad but true: those most affected at the beginning of the pandemic were the weakest, that is, people over 70 years of age, which has made the remaining population stronger.
Finally, the report says that maintaining social estrangement is key to reducing the number and severity of cases: "This would be the case if the intensity of symptoms depends on viral load and viral load is limited by social estrangement."
It is assured that, now and in the near future, it will be necessary to continue with distance measures and the use of masks, as well as hand washing, because that alone, as long as the vaccine is not available, will ensure that, as scientists expect, the virus maintains a weakening curve.