Italian TV's 2015 report on a virus created in a laboratory in China is unrelated to COVID-19
Publications shared thousands of times on social media since at least March 27, claim that a report issued in 2015 by the Italian television channel RAI shows that the new coronavirus was created in a laboratory by the Chinese government.
The video, which has circulated in other languages and talks about scientists who then manufactured a hybrid version of a bat coronavirus in China, was based on a study published in the scientific journal Nature.
In March 2020, the journal clarified that there is no evidence that this experiment is related to the current COVID-19 pandemic.
"RAI's 2015 program counted the creation of the current coronavirus," is the title of a YouTube video released on March 27, 2015, which has over 700,000 views.
The description of the sequence, shared over 5,500 times on Facebook, says:
An Italian public television program RAI 3 specialized in scientific information reported in 2015 the 'achievement' of Chinese scientists who had managed to modify the SARS virus so that it could be transmitted from bats to humans.
Screenshot of a Facebook post taken on April 1, 2020
The same video, associated with the current COVID-19 pandemic, has also circulated on Twitter (1, 2), has been posted on two other YouTube channels (1, 2) and also circulated in Portuguese.
On Facebook, a video has been shared over 45,000 times where a Spanish presenter along with a panelist suggest that such an experiment reported by RAI in 2015 would be related to the current outbreak (1, 2, 3, 4).
This same report was published on March 25 by the former Deputy Prime Minister of Italy, Matteo Salvini, informing that his party, the Northern League, would send an urgent consultation to the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister on the matter.
However, the report issued in 2015 by Radiotelevisione Italiana (RAI) has nothing to do with the current pandemic.
The 2015 Report
The programme, broadcast on 16 November 2015 in the scientific section of the RAI news programme "TGR Leonardo," details how Chinese scientists managed to create a modified organism.
"by altering the surface protein of a coronavirus found in bats";
, thus generating severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS).
According to the report, this virus created in a laboratory could infect humans, which sparked a debate about whether the learning gained through this experiment justifies the possible risks involved.
A Google search of the words mentioned in the report, plus the name of the newscast, led to an article by the Italian news agency ANSA of March 25, 2020, in which TGR Leonardo director Alessandro Casarin explains that the report was based on a publication in the scientific journal Nature and that
"just three days ago, the same magazine made it clear that the virus that was reported, created in the laboratory, has no relation to the natural virus [causing] COVID-19."
A review of the articles published by Nature in November 2015 found one entitled
The bat virus generates debate about research risks
The publication was updated in March 2020 with an editorial note that says:
We know that this story is being used as a basis for unverified theories that the new coronavirus that causes COVID-19 was designed.
There is no evidence that this is true.
Scientists believe an animal is the most likely source of coronavirus. "
Screenshot taken on March 31, 2020 showing the note added to the 2015 Nature article
Following the release of the 2015 report, now linking it to the new coronavirus, the Italian RAI programme Porta a Porta invited a specialist to debate the issue.
In the broadcast, Professor Fabrizio Pregliasco, a specialist in virology at the University of Milan, qualified as a "
conspiracy theory
the possibility that the new coronavirus
escaped
"from a laboratory.
On the contrary, there are confirmations that it is of natural origin, always through a variation of a bat virus.
The isolated genome shows a natural origin.
This possibility is part of conspiracy theories, conspiracy theories, also linked to the fact that Wuhan has a beautiful high-security lab where studies are conducted.
But I insist that, in fact, that would not be the origin of the virus. "
, said Pregliasco.
The Origin of the New Coronavirus
A study published on 17 March this year in the scientific journal Nature reiterates that the new coronavirus has a natural origin:
Our analysis clearly shows that SARS-CoV-2 is not a laboratory creation or a virus that was deliberately manipulated.
, the researchers wrote.
As part of the study, the authors analyzed the genetic structure of SARS-CoV-2, concluding that, if there were laboratory manipulation, its structure would be similar to that of other existing organisms. "
However, genetic data show conclusively that SARS-CoV-2 is not derived from any previously used central virus structure. "
, indicates the research.
This possibility is also considered the most likely by the World Health Organization (WHO).
The origin of SARS-CoV-2, the coronavirus that causes COVID-19, is currently unknown.
All available evidence suggests that SARS-CoV-2 has a natural animal origin and is not a built virus. "
explain on their website in English.
The first cases of infection with the new coronavirus were confirmed in December 2019 in the Chinese city of Wuhan.
The region, which recorded thousands of new cases per day during the peak of the outbreak at the end of February, was considered on March 28 to be a "
low risk
According to local government sources.
In the rest of the world, countries are stepping up containment measures to control the disease, which has left more than 50,000 dead and more than a million infected.
In short, publications claiming that the 2015 report by Italian broadcaster RAI proves that the new coronavirus was created in a laboratory in China is misleading.
The article was based on a study by the scientific journal Nature, which clarified that there is no evidence that the experiment presented is related to the current pandemic.
A later analysis published in the British magazine shows that SARS-CoV-2 was neither manufactured in the laboratory nor produced on purpose.
This verification was carried out within the framework of the journalistic coalition to combat disinformation Projeto Comprova in Brazil, of which AFP is a part.