Chlorine dioxide as a treatment of covid-19: Does CDS work to combat coronavirus?
The coronavirus pandemic is advancing in several countries around the world, while in some others where it seemed controlled, rebirths are beginning to emerge.
So far there is no effective protocol for its treatment, nor is there an official vaccine available.
A number of alternative treatments have emerged, most of them ineffective.
However, chlorine dioxide as a treatment of covid-19 appears to be a real possibility to combat the virus.
In this article we will review the potential of CDS to treat coronavirus.
Chlorine dioxide as a treatment of covid-19: Studies performed, remissions and decrease of the contagion curve
In Ecuador, the Ecuadorian Association of Specialists in Integrative Medicine (Aemimi), chaired by Dr. Mauricio Quiñónez Mendoza, conducted a study between March 27 and April 10, 2020 in Guayaquil, to 104 volunteers.
The team of doctors at the head of the name research: "Chlorine dioxide: an effective therapy for the treatment of Sars-cov2 (Covid-19)" was coordinated by Dr. Roberto García.
The research was developed after Dr. Quiñones was diagnosed as positive for Covid-19.
Dr. Quiñnez was treated with CDS and was able to check for himself the healing effects of chlorine dioxide, as a result he ended up completely healthy.
The study group consisted of men and women between the ages of 18 and 80.
All with positive results for COVID-19 tests at different levels of disease evolution.
Among the patients were even some doctors of the Aemimi.
Although the study did not have a control group, the positive evolution of volunteers infected with Covid-19 and remission of pathology were documented.
Mexico, Centro Medico Jurica y la COMUSAV
In Mexico, the Director of Health Services of the State Health Secretariat, Martina Pérez Rendón, has noted that at the Jurica Medical Center, in the state of Querétaro, chlorine dioxide has been used to treat patients with Covid-19.
The clinic ensures that all its patients with Covid-19 have recovered in less than 24 hours and that none have died.
Dr. Pedro Chávez Zabala, coordinator of the World Health and Life Coalition (COMUSAV) in Mexico, on the other hand, says that the coalition is made up of 16 countries and 3,000 doctors who treat some 20,000 patients, of which 10,000 cases have been treated so far.
Bolivia and the Declining Transmission Curve
In the Mayors of Bolivia where the use of CDS to treat Covid-19 has been approved, a significant decrease in the contagion curve has been observed, while in those that have not been approved, it increases every day.
Dr.
Patricia Callisperis, for her part, used CDS to treat herself, three years ago, an advanced oral pathology that didn 't allow her to speak.
He had received three different diagnoses for his illness and was taking four medications without any cure.
Dr.
Callisperis eventually used CDS and managed to heal completely.
It is currently used to treat Covid-19 in Bolivia.
Given the proven healing properties of CDS in various medical cases worldwide, we next refer (through the research and experiences of three experts) to how chlorine dioxide works to treat Covid-19.
Chlorine dioxide as a treatment of covid-19: the experience of Dr.
Ms Rita Denegri
Dr.
Rita Denegri became known through her manifesto on social media in which she proved the non-toxicity of chlorine dioxide.
The Peruvian physician is also one of the Latin American professionals who is using chlorine dioxide as a treatment for covid-19.
In practice there are already about fifty patients who have experienced improvements, and mostly complete remission of the disease.
At the beginning of the pandemic, Denegri treated the disease using ozone therapy and a drug that is being used in some of the various Latin American protocols: ivermectin.
However, as he found more patients, they asked him to treat them with chlorine dioxide; the request of his patients led to Dr.
Denegri investigated the subject, and included chlorine dioxide as a treatment.
Based on the efficient results obtained with its use, it decided to adopt and support its use.
CDS oxidation potential to treat coronavirus
According to Peruvian galena, the first mechanism of action that CDS has to treat coronavirus is its oxidation potential.
And indeed, being 0.95 volts, it makes it very effective in combating any pathogen that is less than this voltage.
And so any virus, including covid-19, is below 0.7 V.
It is therefore impossible to survive the action of chlorine dioxide.
CDS oxygenation potential to treat coronavirus
The second mechanism of action of chlorine dioxide is that it is a potent blood oxygenator because it contains oxygen molecules.
And if we consider that one of the main symptoms of this pathology is respiratory failure, because CDS is potentially a good cure for the disease caused by covid-19.
CDS fluidisation potential for treating coronavirus
Third, CDS is found to be a blood fluidifier.
In this sense, it avoids clot formation, which is one of the last and most alarming symptoms of Covid-19 referred to by researchers.
Chlorine dioxide as a treatment of covid-19: the contributions of Dr.
Dr.
Teresa Forcades is a Spanish physician, Benedictine nun, specialist in internal medicine and Doctor of Public Health at the University of Barcelona.
Among his contributions to the subject was the provision of reliable and up-to-date scientific data on the empirical evidence of CDS.
He claims that studies have been conducted for 30 years in pathologies such as post-radiation hemorrhagic cystitis and the diabetic foot, proving the efficacy of chlorine dioxide as a treatment in both pathologies.
In the United States, studies have been conducted with cancer patients and AIDS patients, showing hopeful results in both cases.
As for the efficacy of chlorine dioxide as a treatment of covid-19, it is a potential emergent remedy given its three main effects.
CDS in a Microbicide and Bactericide Agent
As a microbicide and bactericide agent, chlorine dioxide oxidizes to penetrate the membranes of pathogenic microorganisms and destroys them.
However, it does not damage benign human cells.
CDS is a powerful immunomodulator
According to studies at the Ruprecht Karl University of Heidelberg - Germany, the immunomodulatory properties of CDS have been tested.
An immunomodulator is an agent capable of increasing the immune response of the organism.
And this makes CDS especially effective in treating covid-19, as this property gives it the ability to regulate the production of Cd-16 lymphocytes in the immune system.
Cd-16 lymphocytes are responsible for the production of interleukin 6.
Interlequine 6, in turn, is the trigger for the cytokine storm: one of the most serious effects of this pathology.
Chlorine dioxide acts at the immunological level as a major enhancer of the body's natural defenses.
CDS is anti-inflammatory
Since CDS is an anti-inflammatory, it neutralizes free radicals, which makes it a potential drug as a treatment for covid-19.
And it is these free radicals that are responsible for the disseminated intravascular coagulation, which is the cause of the patients' deaths, according to autopsies carried out in Italy on those who died from covid-19.
Chlorine dioxide has all the agent qualities to combat coronavirus
The properties of eliminating pathogens, the ability to increase the immune response, and the anti-inflammatory properties of CDS, make the elements necessary for the treatment of covid-19 in a single substance.
Chlorine dioxide as a treatment of covid-19: Dr. Pedro Chávez's research
Dr. Pedro Chávez Zabala is a medical colonel in the Mexican Army and a founding member of a group of doctors who form a front for the defense of the use of CDS: COMUSAV.
The Mexican doctor has explained that since coronavirus is a pathogen that does not breathe, it needs to take oxygen from a human cell to live, reproduce, and infect other cells.
And that 's where CDS comes into action, because it causes oxidation in the virus, and so you can' t replicate.
It also states that once the virus is dead, it is removed as a metabolic waste.
Saving lives or proving the CDS works?
: Multicentre study and research protocol
In contrast to the clinical trials of these and many other doctors around the world, the World Health Organization (WHO) and the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) require doctors, organizations, and countries that are using chlorine dioxide as a treatment of covid-19, to submit a research protocol and perform a multi-centre study.
Although research design to demonstrate the efficacy of using CDS to treat covid-19, and the multi-center research project already exist, these procedures are extremely slow.
Some believe that the complete process leading to the eventual approval of CDS as a drug may take up to fifteen years.
In the meantime, doctors who have committed themselves to treating patients who are ill by covid-19 with CDS have relied on Article 32 of the World Medical Association's Helsinki Declaration, which reads:
In the treatment of a sick person, the physician should have the possibility of using a new diagnostic or therapeutic procedure if, in his or her opinion, he or she offers hope of saving life, restoring health, or alleviating suffering.
Related articles