Eye on a new ploy: the government has not banned leaving the house from 3 p.m.
A quarter of the world's population uses Whatsapp.
The government has not banned the Spanish from leaving their homes from 3: 00 p.m. due to the coronavirus health crisis, as confirmed by a message broadcast in recent days by WhatsApp that comes from a hoax previously spread in Argentina and Bolivia.
In recent days, a message has circulated through this application warning that the Government has issued a "supreme decree" of "health crisis" by which citizens are prohibited from leaving their homes after 3 p.m., "with the exception of authorized personnel."
Among other measures imposed in the wake of the state of "national emergency and quarantine," the message also lists restrictions such as the closure of all shops "except those of primary necessity," the limitation of the working day to a "continuous 8: 00 to 2: 00 hours" and the end of public transport from 3: 00 p.m.
Both the time limit for street traffic and the other alleged government restrictions are false.
The Spanish Government has not approved any "supreme decree" with measures of this kind since Royal Decree 463 / 2020, published last March 14, declaring the state of alarm against the expansion of Covid-19.
This Wednesday, the National Police warned about this hoax on their Twitter account, where they encouraged citizens not to forward this type of viral content "without known provenance" and to distrust, in terms of security, information that does not come from official sources.
Before arriving in Spain, the viral message about the "supreme decree" circulated through South American countries such as Bolivia and especially Argentina, where it spread so widely among the population that the very secretary of Communication and Press of the Presidency, Juan Pablo Biondi, publicly warned on March 19, with a tweet, that it was "absolutely false."
Join our newsletter and receive in your mail the latest news, keys and data about coronavirus.