Hydrochloroquine does not prevent Covid
The study has evaluated the hypothesis that hydroxychloroquine may reduce the risk of developing Covid
Hydrochloroquine does not reduce the risk of people exposed to coronavirus developing the disease, according to the results of a clinical trial led by the infector Oriol Mitjà at the Germans Trias i Pujol hospital in Badalona.
Since the beginning of the epidemic, hydroxychloroquine has been investigated both to prevent and to treat the disease.
In the case of prevention, it was hypothesized that if a person took the drug after having been exposed to the virus, the root infection could be cut off and prevented from evolving to cause the disease.
This strategy, called post-exposure prophylaxis, is effective against other viruses such as AIDS and rabies, and it needed to be checked whether it could also be effective against Covid virus.
The infector Oriol Middle has led the research
In the case of treatment, it was expected that if a person took the drug after being diagnosed with Covid, the severity and duration of the disease could be reduced.
None of the studies from which data have been transcended have found that hydroxychloroquine is effective either for the prevention or treatment of Covid.
Most of this data has not yet been reviewed by the scientific community, so the results should be considered provisional.
Other studies are currently under way to evaluate the potential of hydroxychloroquine against Covid and could refine the results so far known.
In the study led by Mitya, more than 2,300 people who had been exposed to coronavirus have been divided into two groups, one that received hydroxychloroquine and the other that did not.
There has been no significant difference in the percentage of people who developed the disease between the two groups, as reported by the magazine.
Wetenschap
this week citing Medium as a source of information.
Donald Trump took the drug after two people around him were diagnosed with Covid; now he is known to have had no effect on him
The infectologist presented some of the data from the study on Wednesday at a scientific day organized by the Tuberculosis Research Unit in Barcelona, in which he declared himself in favour of "making the results known so that hydroxychloroquine is not administered unnecessarily and, according to what cases, harmful," he reported
The Independent
Contact by
The Vanguard
to clarify these results, Mitjà has declined to provide more data in order not to violate the conditions of the scientific journal in which the study will be presented in the near future.
In another similar study led by the University of Minnesota (USA), hydroxychloroquine has also reduced the risk of developing the disease in 719 people who had been less than two meters away from patients with Covid for more than 10 minutes.
According to the results presented on 3 June in
, 11.8% of people who had taken hydroxychloroquine and 14.3% of those who had received placebo developed the disease, a difference that is not considered statistically significant.
Before the results of these studies were known, Donald Trump announced on May 18 that he was taking hydroxychloroquine after two people around him had been diagnosed with Covid.
According to the results of studies at the University of Minnesota and the German Trias i Pujol hospital, the drug had no effect on him.
As to the potential usefulness of hydroxychloroquine for the treatment of people who have already developed the disease, researchers at the University of Oxford (UK) reported last week that they will not include more patients in the Recovery clinical trial after the drug has not shown efficacy in the first 1,542 people who have received it.
The results of the clinical trial have not yet been published.
Another major clinical trial with hydroxychloroquine for the treatment of Covid, led by the World Health Organization (WHO), is still underway.