The person in the photo is the Spanish YouTuber AuronPlay and did not "create" the new coronavirus
An apparent screenshot of a man and the logo of the American news network CNN began circulating on January 27 claiming that he is the "creator of the coronavirus."
The claim is false: it is the Spanish YouTuber known as AuronPlay, who has already been the target of other misinformation.
AFP also did not find records of the biochemist
Raúl Rodolfo Abdhuz Khan.
He is responsible for the creation of the coronavirus, Chinese authorities as well as Arabs are already looking for it, is a billionaire named Raul Rodolfo Abhduz Khan from Karmalah.
He is a biochemical engineer who operates at Karmalah Laboratories located in Karmalah itself, Dipendan [sic] "
, says one of the messages on Facebook (1, 2).
The text is accompanied by an apparent screenshot of a news story supposedly published by the American news network CNN in Spanish.
It features the chain's logo, a black-and-white photograph of a man, and the title:
Millionaire grocery business behind coronavirus.
Raúl Rodolfo Abdhuz Khan Biochemical Engineer of Karmalah Laboratories creator of coronavirus [sic]. "
However, there are no records on the CNN website of the publication of any story with that title.
Screenshot taken on January 30, 2020 from one of Facebook publications
A reverse search of the photo on Google and Yandex engines revealed that the man of the photo is Raúl Álvarez Genes, a well-known 32-year-old Spanish YouTuber who on social media calls himself AuronPlay.
The photo in the entries had been posted by AuronPlay on his Instagram account on August 29, 2017.
AFP Factual searched Google separately for the name of the alleged biochemical engineer, the laboratory, and the city mentioned in the publications.
The name of
'Raúl Rodolfo Abdhuz Khan ',
is only linked to publications that repeat the claim that it is the
"creator of coronavirus";
I'm sorry.
The same is true of the laboratory.
The city of Karmalah does not appear on Google, but in India there is one with a similar name, Karmala, 1,349 kilometers from New Delhi.
Auronplay has already been the target of other misinformation.
In April 2019, AFP Factual verified a publication that blamed him for the fire at Notre Dame Cathedral in Paris.
It has also been linked to cases of violence in different Latin American cities, such as here and here.
He was also reported to be responsible for a car bomb attack in Bogotá in 2019.
The same YouTuber reacted to the publication that links him to the new coronavirus on his Twitter account with this message: "
of the tardaban
. "
- AuronPlay (@ auronplay)
The New Coronavirus
Coronaviruses are a "family of viruses that can cause various conditions," according to the World Health Organization (WHO), belonging to the family of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS).
In December 2019, a new strain emerged in the Chinese city of Wuhan, a metropolis of 11 million inhabitants that has been quarantined since 23 January, as well as other neighboring cities.
On 30 January 2020, the WHO declared an international emergency for the outbreak of the new coronavirus, which has already caused more than 400 deaths in China, where at least 20,400 were infected (as of 4 February).
Infections were also recorded in 20 countries.
In conclusion, the man appearing in the photograph is not the "creator" of the new coronavirus, but the Spanish YouTuber Raul Alvarez, known as AuronPlay.