It's false that drinking hot water prevents coronavirus Covid-19
In the middle of the alert for confirmed cases of Covid-19 in Mexico, a publication with at least 11,000 interactions on social networks invites drinking hot water in the form of infusions to avoid contracting the disease.
This information is false, health authorities do not recognize hot water as a preventive measure, and experts point out that it could be counterproductive.
Part of the publication contains partially truthful information, but mixing with false information can be confusing for users.
Therefore, it is important to analyse it point by point in order to clarify the data.
The supposed source does not exist
The viral publication backs up the alleged information with: "An Italian doctor who was sent to Shenzhen hospital to study the Wuhan Pneumonia virus, or Corona-Virus."
But no details are specified, such as the doctor's name, or to which of the ten hospitals in Shenzhen city was sent.
Content similar to that of this publication has been shared in several languages and attributed to different sources: from the Canadian Department of Health to the Spanish Ministry of Health.
Some of these publications have been refuted by other verification sites such as Newtral.
You may be interested: Questions about COVID-19: serve the covers, how it is cured, why there is no vaccine
Drinking hot water doesn't kill the virus
The same misinformation from the Facebook viral publication circulated in Mexico as a Whatsapp chain, and asserted that: "The Wuhan virus or Corona virus is not heat resistant and dies at a temperature of 26 to 27 degrees.
Therefore, drink more hot water.
At the time of year it is cold, so drinking hot water (such as tea and infusions) is very convenient. "
While it is true that the SARS-CoV-2 virus - which causes the disease known as Covid-19 - is less resistant in hot conditions, there is no evidence to support drinking hot water as a preventive measure.
In fact, Dr. Michel Fernando Martínez, leader of the TecSalud Epidemiological Surveillance Unit, told Animal Político that drinking hot water would be counter-productive for prevention, as "its consumption leads to the injury of oral mucosa and a damaged oral mucosa is more prone to infection."
According to Michel Martínez, the virus is more likely to survive in cold climates, but it is not yet possible to know how it will react at other temperatures.
It will be interesting to see how the virus behaves in other latitudes, for example in Brazil, as they are in summer and the weather conditions are hot.
Theoretically, we assume that it will limit it, based on the projections we have on influenza: where in Mexico by April-May, the cases associated with influenza decrease considerably, "he comments.
Free journalism needs its readers.
Let 's keep telling the stories that matter.
Dyr
The United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) also confirmed that research is ongoing and at the moment "it is unknown whether time and temperature will affect the spread of COVID-19."
The use of covers is not necessary and the size of the virus is not what they said either.
The now-named SARS-CoV-2 does not "have a diameter of approximately 400-500 nm" as the viral publication states.
In fact, according to research conducted by Cocuyo effect verifiers, this type of virus measures between 100 and 160 nm (nanometer, which measures one millionth of a meter).
The publication uses false data on the size of the virus to justify the use of covers as a preventive measure.
However, both the World Health Organization (WHO) and the CDCs recommended wearing masks only if you have coughing or sneezing or are attending someone suspected of being infected with Covid-19.
In fact, both dependencies emphasize that "masquerades are only effective if combined with frequent hand washing."
You can also read: In China, they don 't hunt' coronaviruses; it 's a simulation.
The virus lives on inert surfaces.
The publication argues that "when the virus falls on the surface of a metal, it will live for at least 12 hours" and that it can "remain active in the tissue (fabric) for 6-12 hours."
These claims are not entirely false, according to Michel Martínez, the virus can survive on inert surfaces, but for a longer time span.
At the hospital level, with respect to other coronaviruses such as MERS and SARS, it is known to be on surfaces for up to nine days.
As for humans, what we have at the moment is that a patient can last 14 days being contagious. "
The symptoms are not exactly what they described.
The Facebook post also explores the different stages in which the so-called Covid-19 manifests itself in infected people:
First it will infect the throat, then in the throat it will feel like a dry throat pain that will last 3-4 days.
The virus will then fuse with the nasal fluid and drip into the trachea and enter the lungs, causing Wuhan pneumonia.
This process takes 5 to 6 days.
There will be a stadium with pneumonia, high fever and respiratory difficulties.
Nasal congestion is not like normal nasal congestion.
You'll feel like drowning in water.
It is important to seek medical care immediately if you have this feeling. "
In this regard, Animal Politico consulted with Dr. Mauricio Rodríguez Álvarez, an academic of the Department of Microbiology and Parasitology of the Faculty of Medicine, who confirmed the development of the disease:
It begins as an infection in the upper respiratory tract such as the nose and throat.
It evolves into the deepest parts of the respiratory system, the lungs.
He says it causes pneumonia there that prevents the lung from working properly and that's what makes the patient get serious. "
In addition, Michel Martínez described the most common symptoms Covid-19 has caused in patients: "Fever - more than 88% of patients have developed fever - headache, throat pain, cough, respiratory difficulty and myalgia."
True, washing hands is a preventive measure
At the end of the publication it is recommended to wash your hands frequently.
This claim is true and has been repeated multiple times by WHO and CDCs.
Washing your hands frequently with alcohol-based disinfectant or with water and soap is the main preventive measure against Covid-19.
Even if they tell you that drinking hot water and exposing yourself to hot temperatures is a preventive measure against contracting the disease, this is false.
What we do in Political Animal requires professional journalists, teamwork, dialogue with readers and something very important: independence.
You can help us follow.
I'm part of the team.
Subscribe to Political Animal, receive benefits and support free journalism.
YoSoyAnimal