Street dogs, possible origin of coronavirus
A man walks with his pet in front of a post at the Yulin Dog Meat Festival in China -
First the snakes were accused, then the pangolins.
However, to date no animal has been definitively identified as the intermediate host of the new SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus, causing the pandemic that has already infected more than a million people worldwide.
Now, a new research from the University of Ottawa (Canada) suggests that stray dogs that fed on bats may have been the transmitters.
The study, for which more than a million virus genomes have been reviewed, appears in the journal Molecular Biology and Evolution.
Last February, Chinese research pointed out that the virus, which originated in bats, jumped to pangolins and then, possibly by selling these animals in Wuhan wildlife markets, to people.
Later studies found in these mammals coronaviruses closely related to that of Covid-19, but the degree of similarity was not sufficient to claim that they had given with the transmitter.
Xuhua Xia, a biology professor in Ottawa and an expert coronavirus tracker, agrees.
In his view, the viruses isolated in these animals are "too divergent from SARS-CoV-2," which seems to indicate "a common ancestor too far back in time, which probably lived in the 1960s."
According to the new hypothesis, it was a bat coronavirus that infected the intestines of the canids, which probably caused a rapid evolution of the virus to remain hidden from the immune system.
He was thus strengthened, giving a leap to humans.
The idea is supported by similar "battle" signs found in the new coronavirus, in a closely related bat (BatCoV RaTG13) and in that of dogs that affect their digestive system (CCoV).
Humans and other mammals have a key antiviral sentinel protein called ZAP, a soldier who patrols the lungs and can stop a virus on its way by preventing its multiplication and degrading its genome.
The signal the sentinel seeks to attack, which indicates the presence of the virus, are chemical letters, called CpG dinucleotides, within its RNA genome.
But coronaviruses like SARS-CoV can prevent ZAP by reducing these CpG signals, making ZAP impotent.
It is the same deception technique that HIV uses to bypass human antiviral defenses.
Zealous and Dangerous
Well, for the study, Xia examined 1,252 betacoronavirus genomes deposited in GenBank (a publicly available genetic sequence database) to date.
In this way, he discovered that SARS-CoV-2 and its most closely related known relative, a bat coronavirus (BatCoV RaTG13), have the lowest amount of CpG among its close coronavirus relatives.
I mean, they hide very well in front of the immune system.
The virus's survival indicates that it has successfully evaded the ZAP-mediated antiviral defense.
In other words, the virus has become secretive and dangerous to humans, "he notes.
When examining the data in dogs, the researcher found that only the genomes of canine coronavirus (CCoV), which had caused highly contagious intestinal disease in dogs worldwide, have genomic values of CpG similar to those observed in SARS-CoV-2 and BatCoV RaTG13.
Second, as in camels, coronaviruses that infect dogs' digestive system have a lower CpG than those that infect their respiratory system (canine respiratory coronaviruses or CRCoV).
Digestive symptoms
In addition, the cell receptor known for the entry of SARS-CoV-2 into the cell is the enzyme ACE2, which is produced in the human digestive system, at the highest levels in the small intestine and duodenum, with relatively low expression in the lung.
This suggests that mammalian digestive systems are probably a key target of coronavirus.
"This is consistent with a recent report that a high proportion of Covid-19 patients also suffer from digestive disorders," says Xia.
In fact, 48.5% presented digestive symptoms as their main complaint.
Humans are the only other host species observed by Xia with coronavirus with low genomic CpG values.
In a comprehensive study of the first twelve patients with Covid-19 in the U.S., one patient reported diarrhea as an initial symptom before developing fever and cough, and stool samples from seven out of ten patients were positive for SARS-CoV-2, including three patients with diarrhea.
Canids are often observed to lick their anal and genital regions, not only during mating but also in other circumstances.
Such behavior would facilitate viral transmission from the digestive system to the respiratory system.
In this context, it is significant that the bat coronavirus (BatCoV RaTG13), as documented in its genomic sequence at GenBank (MN996532), is isolated from a fecal hispus.
These observations are consistent with the hypothesis that SARS-CoV-2 has evolved in the gut of mammals or tissues associated with the gut, "says the researcher.
Mascots, not won
The scientist believes that we should monitor dog coronaviruses more closely, but reassures pet owners about the possibility of being infected by them.
To transmit SARS-CoV-2 from animal to human, the animal must have a stable virus population in a tissue open to the environment.
At present, there is no evidence that this occurs in dogs.
This could mean they are immune to this virus or maybe we haven't looked for enough yet, "he explains.
Some Chinese cities have opted to exterminate street dogs, but Xia is not in favour of this measure.
If you act in this way, "you not only lose the opportunity to detect various viruses in street dogs, but you also commit unjustified brutality," he says.
On the other hand, China's recent decision to reclassify dogs as pets and not as cattle "has practical difficulties.
If there is an ethnic minority running an autonomous region where dogs are traditionally bred and sold for meat, these people have the right to maintain their tradition.
However, they could voluntarily renounce it with government subsidies, "he argues.
At the same time, "people in different cultures differ in their relationship to animals.
For example, some people in China are much more resistant to eating horse meat than dog meat and are very surprised that there are people who do. "
A large, populous country with biodiversity
First SARS, now Covid-19.
China appears to be a source of viral pathogens.
Xuhua Xia believes that it is simply due to its large size, large population and large amount of biodiversity.
A large country with a large population will be more likely to have a virus outbreak than a small country with a small population, everything else is the same.
This will not happen in the Vatican, which is not only small but also well isolated from nature. "
As he explains, "Humans are part of nature, and contact with wild animals is inevitable, creating opportunities for zoonotic transmission.
It's important to know what potential pathogens are out there. "