Regeneron gets FDA emergency approval for its treatment of Covid
Regeneron Pharmaceuticals.
The U.S. pharmaceutical company Regeneron Pharmaceuticals has obtained emergency use authorization from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for its coronavirus antibody cocktail.
is part of a class of biotechnological therapies known as monoclonal antibodies.
"The emergency authorization of these monoclonal antibodies administered together offers health care providers another tool to combat the pandemic," said Patrizia Cavazzoni, interim director of the FDA's Drug Evaluation and Research Center.
Data from a phase 1 / 2 study in 799 patients showed that cocktail could reduce viral load significantly better than placebo.
In addition, there were lower rates of hospital visits between
within 28 days.
The current emergency authorization is for the low dose of 2,400 mg instead of the high concentration of 8,000 mg tested in phase 1 / 2.
"This benefit was higher in patients with higher risk of poor outcomes due to high viral load, effective immune response at the start of the study or pre-existing risk factors," explained George D. Yancopoulos, scientific director of Regeneron.
The current emergency authorization is for the low dose of 2,400 mg instead of the high concentration of 8,000 mg tested in phase 1 / 2.
Because the activity of the lowest dose was comparable to that of the highest dose in the clinical trial, Regeneron is considering investigating even lower doses in the future.
Regeneron is also testing the drug in hospitalized people and is evaluating the cocktail as a prophylactic option in uninfected people who have had close exposure to a patient with Covid.
Similarly, the company has also stressed that
rapidly reduced viral load to day seven in seronegative patients.
Similarly, patients with higher virus levels at the beginning of the trial had correspondingly higher reductions in viral load with
, which is given by intravenous infusion.
Because health we all need...
We recommend:
Qiagen launches new tools to track coronavirus strains and mutations
North of Alphabet opens its own lab to speed up coronavirus testing