Oral rinsing does not kill coronavirus
Through WhatsApp, a chain has circulated that ensures oral rinsing has the ability to "disintegrate" the COVID-19 virus.
No brandy or vodka serves (against the new coronavirus).
The strongest vodka is 40% alcohol, and you need 65%, "the text notes.
"Listerine does serve, it's 65% alcohol," she adds.
YOU CAN SEE: It is false that the Gates Foundation is a "center for global human population reduction"
According to the message, that recommendation would have been provided by a cardiologist identified as Patricio Avendaño who works at the University of Chile and serves at the German Clinic.
However, there is no evidence to date that oral rinsing will kill the virus.
In addition, the clinic mentioned in the message has denied this recommendation and Listerine has also stated that they have not conducted studies to verify the effectiveness of their product for the prevention or treatment of COVID-19.
The WhatsApp chain ensures that oral rinsing ends with COVID-19.
YOU CAN SEE: It is false that a drink made from kion, garlic, onion and lemon ends with COVID-19
Drinking or dressing with oral rinse does not "disintegrate" the virus
So far there is no evidence that oral rinsing prevents infection by the new coronavirus.
According to the American Dental Association (ADA), oral rinses have been tested for the removal of microbes, but not for coronavirus.
In this regard, Dr. Gabriel Taddey, Director of Bucodendal Health of the Ministry of Public Health of Paraguay, mentioned that while certain microorganisms are eliminated, this does not mean that they protect against COVID-19 infection.
"Chlorhexidine rinses have not been shown to be effective in reducing the charge of coronavirus in oral mucosa and saliva," he said.
However, the University of Cardiff in the United Kingdom recently published a research study studying the potential role of oral rinsing in preventing transmission.
However, the results are inconclusive, as they were based on a theoretical analysis of all previous studies and ultimately determined that in vitro testing is required.
The World Health Organization has denied this myth
In the face of increasing rumors surrounding the new coronavirus, the World Health Organization has pronounced on the use of oral rinsing in this situation.
On their website, they mention that although some brands remove microorganisms for a few minutes, there is no evidence that they can protect against coronavirus infection.
The World Health Organization has dismantled that myth.
YOU CAN SEE: It is false that photographs of dead in a morgue were taken in Spain during the pandemic
Listerine has denied the effectiveness of her product against COVID-19
The company that owns the mouthwash mentioned in the chain has also pronounced on the use of its products as prevention or treatment of the virus.
In this regard, he states that his product has been tested to eliminate 99% of the germs that cause bad breath and has not been tested in coronavirus strains.
"The effects of oral rinsing LISTERINE against coronavirus have not been studied and is not intended to prevent or treat COVID-19," the company said.
It also recommends following the recommendations of the World Health Organization to prevent infection.
LISTERINE has stated that its products have not been tested to prevent or treat the new coronavirus.
The German Clinic warns that their communication is done through their social networks
Finally, the health institution in which the doctor identified as Patricio Avendaño, German Clinic, works has issued a statement warning that any official information they provide is published on their social networks.
"We want to clarify that when we communicate something we do it through our official channels (Web - Mailing - Institutional Social Networks)," they noted in their publication.
The German Clinic has claimed that its information is transmitted through its official social networks.
Conclusion
It is false that oral rinsing kills coronavirus as mentioned by a WhatsApp chain in which, according to a cardiologist, this product disintegrates the virus causing COVID-19.
There is no evidence of its efficacy to prevent infection.
In addition, the World Health Organization and Listerine, a brand mentioned in the message, have denied that the compound is effective in this situation.