The holy herb does not contain ivermectin and there is no evidence that COVID can cure it.
A Facebook post, shared more than 3,600 times, claims that the holy grass and the shade plant are the same, and that "natural ivermectin" is extracted from them.
However, it is false.
ivermectin is not extracted from holy grass or matte but is a pharmacological substance created in the laboratory.
The National Library of Medicine defines it as "a semi-synthetic macrocyclic lactone."
Springer adds that ivermectin is "a semi-synthetic derivative of avermectin," a frequently used antiparasitic agent in veterinary medicine.
In April 2020 ivermectin came to attention after researchers in Australia suggested that high doses of the drug could prevent coronavirus from replicating in cells.
However, this and other studies were eliminated, and since then both international and Mexican health agencies have warned about its use.
On January 14, the Pan American Health Organization (PAHO) determined that studies on the use of ivermectin presented a high risk of bias and very little certainty, so "there is no scientific evidence of its efficacy and safety for the treatment of the disease" COVID-19.
Then, on January 29, doctors from the Multidisciplinary Panel of Experts (PME) of the Coordinating Commission of National Institutes of Health and High-Speciality Hospitals (CCINSHAE) determined that "there is insufficient scientific evidence to recommend the use of ivermectin alone, azithromycin alone and ivermectin combined with azithromycin, as treatment for COVID-19 in any of its stages."
What about the holy leaf?
The publication that has been viralized on social media claims that the holy leaf and the pencil are the same.
And he suggests you give a tea with lemon from those herbs to your family member who has COVID-19.
The holy leaf and the pencil are not the same.
Although both leaves belong to the same family of peppers called Piperaceae, such as the black and white pepper used for cooking, they all have distinct botanical properties.
According to the government of Mexico, the holy herb (Piper auritum) helps to decrease fever, is relaxing, helps intestinal functioning and decreases stomach pain.
Moisture (Piper aduncum) is extracted from essential oil with insecticide, fungicide and bactericide action, according to a scientific research by the Federal University of Lavras in Brazil.
The World Health Organization (WHO) states that "although some solutions from Western or traditional medicine or home remedies may prove comforting and alleviate the mild symptoms of COVID-19, so far no medication has been shown to prevent or cure this disease."
Therefore, ivermectin is a semi-synthetic substance that is not extracted from either the holy leaf or the nail, and none of the three cures COVID-19.
What we do in Political Animal requires professional journalists, teamwork, dialogue with readers and something very important: independence.
You can help us follow.
I'm part of the team.
Subscribe to Political Animal, receive benefits and support free journalism.
YoSoyAnimal