Rising temperatures in the southern hemisphere: The effects summer season could have on contagion dynamics
My doctors told me that with the sun's ultraviolet rays the virus was going to die.
"In June, the WHO agreed that it was unknown whether SARS-CoV-2 would become more aggressive in winter..." that is, it could effectively transform into a good person
The article is rather imprecise.
First, the heat if it affects the virus because it is just a fat bubble with proteins and a segment of genetic code.
On hot days the fat bubble melts more easily and the virus vanishes.
In cold days the virus lasts longer in the weather and remains active for longer.
On the other hand, the virus does not multiply in the wild, it can only do so within another living organism.
It is not that with heat it affects less, it is that low fears increase the risk... but see what happens in Iran that is not exactly a cold place or the first European wave in the middle of summer... thinking that summer will help is just a wish, but unfortunately not a reality.
With the summer heat the virus attacks less, but we have to continue with the protocols to not fall as Europe fell now with autumn / winter
Lorena Andrea Alvarez Orellana seems not to have read the article
Trump said that the Chinese virus was going to disappear in the summer, there are... 210,000 dead.
Francisco Gardener JAYAYAYAYAYAYAYAYAYAYAYAYAYAYAYAYAYAYAYAYAYAYAYAYAYAYAYAYAYAYAYAYAYAYAYAYAYAYAYAYAYAYAYAYAYAYAYAYAYAYAYAYAYAYAYAYAYAYAY
how to talk w you use all these RC tm to write comments
The only quequequequiero is to know if my abuelito was getting the money raised x the caeza de chancho don francis, I suppose there is some older adult who is getting to them already or am I wrong??
It gives the impression that you want to know when your grandfather will get the silver to go get it.
It gives that impression of how grateful you are to be with Don Francisco.
jajajaja not at all, so different you live in the world of bilz and pap, still sucking my air that gets you into the jajajaja head.
If all the people knew that when this gift francis arrives at the teleton jajajaja.
CORONA ESTAFA CHINO, WILL VOLUNTARY WORLD SANITARY TERRORISM UN-MAFIA THE PROXIMUM WITH ITS WORLD CAMPAIGN.
Google now pays between $18,488 and $24,600 per month for working in Ilnea from home.
I joined this job 2 months ago and earned $25540 in my first month of this job.
I can say that my life has changed for the better!!!!
Look what I do................. http: / / tabajao10.gxuz.com
Google now pays between $18,488 and $24,600 per month for working in Ilnea from home.
I joined this job 2 months ago and earned $25540 in my first month of this job.
I can say that my life has changed for the better!!!!
Look what I'm doing...