It 's not true that Fauci knew since 2005 that hydroxychloroquine cures coronavirus.
Several publications shared hundreds of times on social media since May claim that America's leading infectious disease expert, Anthony Fauci, has known for 15 years that hydroxychloroquine is an effective treatment against coronaviruses, citing a 2005 academic article to prove it.
This is false.
The study on which the publications are based was done with chloroquine and in the laboratory, not in humans.
In addition, it was published in a magazine that has nothing to do with Fauci or the health institute he has headed since 1984.
DR. FAUCI HAS ACCEPTED HYDROXYCLOQUIN 15 YEARS TO STUDY CORONAVIRUS
, is the title of a Facebook post explaining how the current COVID-19 pandemic advisor in the United States, Anthony Fauci, supposedly knew about the effectiveness of chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine as treatments against coronaviruses and would have hidden it since.
The text justifies:
The Virology Journal, the official publication of Dr. Fauci's National Institutes of Health, published what is now a successful article on August 22, 2005, under the heading: Prepare for this: Chloroquine is a potent inhibitor of SARS coronavirus infection and spread.
This means, of course, that Dr. Fauci has known for 15 years that even lighter chloroquine and its hydroxychloroquine derivative (HCQ) would not only treat a current case of coronavirus ('therapeutic') but would avoid future cases ('prophylactic').
So HCQ works as a cure and a 'vaccine'.
In other words, it's a wonderful drug for coronavirus. "
, says the publication.
Screenshot from August 7, 2020 to a Facebook post
Fauci has been director of the National Institute of Allergies and Infectious Diseases (NIAID) of the Department of Health and Human Services of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) since 1984.
Chloroquine (CQ) is a drug against malaria and amobiasis, while its similar hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) is a less toxic substance or metabolite of chloroquine, which is used to treat rheumatic diseases, among other syndromes, according to this 2020 study.
The same publication and similar ones on Facebook (1, 2, 3) refer to hydroxychloroquine and, in some cases, also chloroquine.
They also mention other studies on the positive effects of these two drugs on COVID-19 by researchers Didier Raoult and Vladimir Zelenko, as well as on the use of chlorine dioxide and ultraviolet light.
AFP Factual has already verified some of these claims previously (1, 2, 3).
Misinformation about Fauci has also circulated on Twitter, as well as in English and Portuguese.
The Study
The 2005 study cited by social media publications is entitled:
Chloroquine is a potent inhibitor of SARS coronavirus infection and spread
It was published after the 2003 outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS), an infectious disease caused by a coronavirus, known as SARS-CoV.
The document states:
Chloroquine is effective in preventing the spread of SARS-CoV in cell cultures.
Favourable inhibition of virus propagation was observed when cells were treated with chloroquine before or after SARS-CoV infection.
In addition, the indirect immunofluorescence assay described in this document represents a simple and rapid method for the detection of SARS-CoV antiviral compounds. "
The study adds that all experiments were carried out
Extracellular
, in a controlled environment outside a living organism, and not in humans or other animals.
The AFP verification team contacted Eric Bergeron, a scientist at the United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and co-author of the quoted 2005 article, who said about claims circulating on social media:
This is completely absurd.
This article only shows that chloroquine works in cell culture experiments.
Later studies in mice suggested that chloroquine was not effective against SARS-CoV. "
explained through an email on August 5.
Our published results suggest that chloroquine should be considered in human trials, but trials showed that it is ineffective against SARS-CoV-2 (causative of COVID-19).
This is very common, many drugs show efficacy in cell culture but no clinical benefit.
This is what people should pay attention to: no clinical benefit.
We treat cell cultures, not humans. "
, concluded.
No relation to Fauci
The 2005 article was published in Virology Journal, a journal described on its website as
open and peer-reviewed access covering articles on all aspects of virology, including research on animal, plant and microbial viruses.
The journal is owned by the for-profit scientific publisher BioMed Central Company, which is part of the British-German academic publisher Springer Nature.
These are not associated with Dr. Anthony Fauci or the NIH, as indicated in the publications.
A spokesman for NIAID told AFP in an e-mail on 5 August:
Dr. Fauci has previously stated that there is insufficient evidence from randomized placebo-controlled trials to indicate that hydroxychloroquine is an effective treatment for COVID-19.
The 2005 article referred to was a cell culture experiment with a virus different from SARS-CoV-2, and the study was conducted by CDC researchers.
Virology Journal is a BMC publication, part of Springer-Nature. "
Anthony Fauci has become a net disinformation target as the new coronavirus has spread worldwide.
The AFP has verified several examples of this in English and Spanish.
Hydrochloroquine and COVID-19
In the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, the debate on the efficacy of hydroxychloroquine has acquired a political tone.
Leaders such as US President Donald Trump and Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro have expressed strong support for this substance as a treatment for the new coronavirus.
As of 10 August 2020, the WHO states on its website that
Although several drug trials are underway, it has not yet been shown that hydroxychloroquine or any other drug can cure or prevent COVID-19.
And he adds:
Misuse of hydroxychloroquine can cause serious side effects and health problems and even death.
In addition, on June 15, the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) revoked emergency use authorization in that country to use hydroxychloroquine and chloroquine to treat COVID-19.
We made this decision based on recent results from a large randomized clinical trial in hospitalized patients that found that these drugs showed no benefit in decreasing the probability of death or accelerating recovery.
, the FDA said.
In conclusion, the 2005 study on the effects of chloroquine on SARS-CoV was performed in a laboratory test, not in patients, and the magazine where it was published is unrelated to Anthony Fauci, nor to the institute he heads.
In addition, chloroquine or hydroxychloroquine have not been shown to help cure or prevent COVID-19