Why wearing a mask does not increase the probability of giving a positive PCR test
You have asked us about publications like this one where it is stated that by wearing a mask all the germs that we exhale become "trapped" in it and increases the probability of giving a positive PCR test.
That's not true.
Pepe Alcami, virologist at the Carlos III Institute of Health, points out that:
Damn Science
That if the virus is in the inside of your mask, it's in your throat.
If not, the mask may have other microbes, bacteria in the throat or even other viruses but these "will not be amplified by a coronavirus-specific PCR."
We explain it to you.
PCR tests for SARS-CoV-2 are specific
The message states that "the greater the use of masquerades, the greater the chance of giving a positive in a Covid test."
All the germs that exhale, become trapped in the mask and return inside, which stagnate in the nasal duct that filters the air.
They then put the hisopus in this cavity, to grab, how many more germs better, the result will be a safe asymptomatic positive, "he says.
There is no evidence that this is the case.
If it is not infected, for many germs that accumulate in the mask that would not cause a positive in PCR, as this test only detects SARS-Cov-2 and does not give false positives for any other virus.
The publications state that the PCR test "only detects a 200-letter sequence [sic] of some X-germs" and that "it is enough to scratch this area, where there are many germs accumulated by the use of the infectious mask."
Alcami argues that "the message is wrong because the PCR test is specific."
According to his account, it is not true that he detected "200 genetic letters of some X-germ."
The PCR method is characterized by its use to amplify the genetic sequence of a germ primer or primers (substances necessary in the reaction on which the PCR is based) that correspond to a fragment of the code of that germ that is unique in that microbe.
In the case of coronavirus, PCR amplifies only if the virus is SARS-CoV-2, does not amplify SARS-CoV-1 or other respiratory coronaviruses.
', he says.
That is, "one chooses' unique 'fragments of the virus that are not present in others."
To illustrate, consider the short stories.
It says that among different stories, especially if they are written in the same language, there are shared letters.
But in every account there are a number of words that are not in any other account.
For example, he claims that the word "kangaroo" may appear in many accounts.
But "the kangaroo was called Willy and I found it in the Melbourne savanna" will only exist in a specific account.
If we search for that phrase among a thousand stories, it will only appear in that one.
The same is true in this case: "The important thing to have a good PCR is to select an 'original' fragment of the virus that we are interested in diagnosing.
If we choose a fragment shared by other coronaviruses we will not be able to differentiate it, but the PCR tests that are used differentiate perfectly between different coronaviruses and even more between viruses from different families or microbes as distinct and genetically distant as bacteria or fungi. "
Here we explain.
The germs we exhale are already in our respiratory tract and normally do not pose a health risk
What exactly happens when we wear the mask?
Magdalena Martínez Cañamero, a microbiologist at the University of Jaén and a member of the Spanish Society of Microbiology, explains that
Damn Science
that mainly accumulates our bacteria from the skin and mouth that "are harmless."
A re-used mask loses its filtering ability, that's its worst danger to the one who uses it (and to others).
Yes, you can risk getting infected and suffering from COVID-19 if the mask is not used properly, according to the expert.
For example, if we touch it or store it badly.
Here we explain what is the best way to keep the mask (in a paper envelope, a cloth or a case of old glasses).
In the same line stands Víctor Jiménez Cid, professor of Microbiology at the Complutense University of Madrid and member of the Spanish Society of Microbiology, who compares the mask with the underwear.
"In its internal face will accumulate after its use all kinds of micro-organisms from the microbiota of the skin and mucous membranes and, on the external face, micro-organisms of the environment.
The former pose no danger to the user and the latter, with proper hygiene measures, neither (in fact the masks are protecting us from them), "he says.
Damn Science.
Juan Sabatté, doctor and microbiologist and researcher of the National Council for Scientific and Technical Research (CONICET) of Argentina, explains that retaining some of the germs that we expel is precisely the utility of mascara.
"Do not let germs pass or at least significantly decrease their rate," he says.
, means that have denied the information.
He explains that this has no negative health consequences and that the possibility of microorganisms trapped in the mask re-entering the body "has not been properly studied."
Even so, he considers this to be of little relevance: "These germs are already in our respiratory tract and exhalation in no way significantly eliminates them."
First publication date: 21 / 08 / 2020.
First publication date of this article: 21 / 08 / 2020