Is The Lancet's Hydrochloroquine Study Reliable?
Tamara Montero Santiago / La Voz 29 / 05 / 2020 20: 14 h
The news hit a week ago: an observational study published in the prestigious scientific journal
suggested that hydroxychloroquine and chloroquine not only did not benefit patients with covid-19, but even had harmful effects.
As a result of these results, derived from the study of over 96,000 patients admitted to hospitals on all continents, the WHO halted trials with this drug.
And yet now there are doubts about the reliability of that data.
They have been written by a group of over a hundred scientists from around the world, who, through an open letter to the research authors and Richard Horton, the editor-in-chief of The Lancet, list a number of problems in the methodology used in this study and ask for access to the data in order to verify them.
The impact has led many researchers around the world to check the publication in detail.
And this check has led to doubts about both the methodology and the data, "says the misiva.
Among the cracks noted by researchers is an inadequate adjustment of confounding factors that are known, such as the severity of the disease, the temporal effects, or the dose used (which are in fact greater than those recommended by the FDA, when 66% of the data comes from American hospitals).
Of course, they do not mention the hospitals that have participated in the study and their specific contribution, some data are inconsistent with those provided by governments and something else: there is very little variability between the results of each continent.
Also the head of Infections of the compostelan hospital complex, Antonio Antela (who has also overcome the disease), speaks of methodological limitations.
The first is that you have a selection bias.
Hydrochloroquine was given to the most severe patients "and the analysis does not fit the data to the patient's severity, which is an important methodological problem, because it is the most severe that have the most chance of dying, so there may be a correlation.
Being precisely an observational study, retrospectively, is another of the methodological biases: "Not everyone did the same or followed a protocol.
So there is no uniformity in the use of the drug or the patients who received it. "
The research also does not conform to standard statistical practices and they have not made their data or code public, although
is among the signatories of the statement on data exchange in research on Covid-19.
The Study "Has Limitations"
Data from this study comes from Surgisphere, a medical data analysis company whose president is one of the authors of the research.
The company has already issued a statement in which they defend the veracity of the sources used and recall that they had previously pointed out that the observational study "has limitations" and that under no circumstances should interpretations be made for patients who have not developed the disease or who have not been hospitalized, they noted in Monday's statement.
In fact, Antonio Antela explains that if you want to get relevant data, what you have to do is a randomized, double-blind clinical trial: some patients are given a drug, others are given a placebo at random, and neither the medical staff nor the people participating in the study know what they are taking.
And everyone must do it the same way.
These limits have also been referred to by the Spanish Medicines Agency, which closely monitors the evolution of drug use and recalls on its website that "currently no controlled and randomized clinical trial has demonstrated the efficacy of these drugs for the treatment of patients with covid-19" and that the information available so far "comes from in vitro studies and series of patients with limitations in size and methodology."
So why so much fuss, to the point where WHO has decided to stop clinical trials?
"First, because it has been published in The Lancet, which is a high-impact journal," Antela says.
And also because the media impact has been considerable and there has been talk of a very powerful study based only on the number of participants, "without taking into account other methodological shortcomings."
Although the number of patients is very high, the wrong results may be obtained if the appropriate statistical criteria are not used.
"In fact, there is a mantra that all epidemiologists repeat, which says that if there are enough cases, we can prove what we want," explains the CHUS doctor...
It is also doubtful whether the results have been used to some degree politically, as hydroxychloroquine is advocated by controversial figures such as Donald Trump or Jair Bolsonaro and even the French physician Didier Raoult.
The recommendation is that if you can avoid it, avoid it.
The current trend in Spain is that if it is possible to avoid the clinical use of hydroxychloroquine, it is avoided.
This was confirmed this Thursday by Fernando Simón to questions from journalists: "It was part of a four-arm clinical trial," that is, several drugs were analysed and the effectiveness of one compared with the other.
Hydrochloroquine has been removed from the test to prevent risks.
"What the WHO has done is right, from the point of view of suspending that arm in the Solidarity study and recommending that it be suspended in other trials until it is clarified" whether or not the Lancet study says so, Antela emphasizes.
But there are other studies, such as Recovery or Discovery, in the UK and France, that have not stopped, and the Spanish study and agency, which has pointed out that the results should be taken into account for clinical use but not to exclude it from randomized clinical trials, which have control.
"If a large number of adverse events are recorded in one arm, the study stops," says the CHUS doctor, and nothing like this has been recorded.
The drug "remains at the disposal" of health professionals, "but obviously they should use it much more carefully and now the recommendation is that if you can avoid it, avoid it," remarked Fernando Simón on Thursday.
Antonio Antela adds that it is important to avoid using it in combination with drugs that can aggravate the adverse effect it causes, arrhythmia.
"It should be avoided that it is not associated with azithromycin, which is something we have frequently used, nor with kaletra" because they can act as catalysts for this adverse cardiac effect.
The CHUS physician advocates "the use of hydroxychloroquine in patients who are included in randomized clinical trials and especially when used in early stages or even in prevention studies," such as Epics, which focuses on health personnel.
"The safety board of the study has issued a statement to patients and medical staff saying that we should continue because there have been no side effects" and because they are dealing with a specific group, which wants to not get infected, a scenario different from that of patients who have contracted the disease.
Antela also sends a message of tranquility about the use of the drug, although the protocol is to use other drugs whenever possible until the exact effects are clarified, and that in the case of use it is not associated with azithromycin or kaletra.
Hydrochloroquine administration for covid-19 also follows a protocol, which includes performing electrocardiograms and a five-day treatment.
The drug is used for lupus and patients take it for decades and as a treatment or prophylaxis of malaria is used for months.
"We do not know to what extent it has contributed to patient improvement," but retrospective data do not show a significant increase in side effects or problems in patients who have used hydroxychloroquine.