Antiviral for other infections that could also be used against COVID-19 coronavirus
Medicine
The number of people infected with the new COVID-19 coronavirus continues to increase rapidly.
Until a vaccine or drug is ready to cure the disease, it may be possible to resort to drugs that serve to treat other infections and whose use in humans has already been verified as safe..................
This is proposed by a coalition of European researchers to carry out research, whose findings have been published in the technical journal International Journal of Infectious Diseases.
The re-use of drugs against diseases other than those for which they were designed is a strategy that saves time and safety trials, which is vital when working against time to stop an epidemic.
Commercially, the strategy also serves to give new uses to an already developed drug.
"For example, teichoplanin, oritavancine, dalbavancin and monensin are approved antibiotics that have been shown to inhibit coronavirus and other viruses in the laboratory," explains Denis Kainov, co-author of the study and professor at the Norwegian University of Science and Technology (NTNU).
Kainov and his collaborators argue that these and other broad-spectrum antiviral drugs, which have already been shown not to cause too strong side effects in humans, are good candidates for treating the disease caused by the new coronavirus, at least until the validity of new drugs specifically targeted against it is proven to be more effective.
An Interim Attach
The advantage of reusing for another disease a drug already in use against others is that all the details surrounding the development of the drug are already known, from the chemical synthesis steps and manufacturing processes to information about the different stages of clinical trials.
Testing for a new disease drugs already in use against other drugs or even drugs that have been shown not to cause serious side effects in humans but have failed to treat the disease for which they were originally designed offers valuable opportunities to quickly obtain drugs that can be used against a new one, because much of the economic investment and initial work is already done, as the authors of the study reason.
Researchers reviewed information on the discovery and development of broad-spectrum antiviral agents, which are drugs that attack viruses of two or more different viral families.
They have found 31 drugs that have already proven safe for human use and are candidates for use in the prophylaxis and treatment of the new coronavirus disease, COVID-19.
Researchers have also found that clinical investigations have recently begun on five drug candidates to treat the COVID-19 virus.
(Source: NCYT Amazings)
All rights reserved.
Legal Deposit B-47398-2009, ISSN 2013-6714 - Amazings and NCYT are registered trademarks.
Noticiasdelaciencia.com and Amazings.com are the official Amazings websites.
All texts and graphs are owned by their authors.
Reproduction is permitted only if the source credit (NCYT Amazings) and a dofullow link to the original news are included.
Except where otherwise indicated, the translation, adaptation and further drafting of this article have been done by the Amazings ® / NCYT ® team.