Closing against the Covid is no longer viable ';' it will only make the people poorer '.
You are at: International > WHO warns: Do not use containment to control Covid-19
WHO adviser warns about the consequences of using containment to combat the virus
Monterey - David Nabarro, special adviser to the World Health Organization (WHO), called on countries around the world to stop using confinement as the main method of controlling Covid-19, as they will only make people poorer and prone to malnutrition and disease.
"They develop better systems to do this, work together, and learn from each other," said the expert, who cited tracking plans and hospitalization as preferable measures to treat the new disease.
"The only time we believe confinement is justified is to buy time to reorganize, regroup, rebalance resources and protect health workers," Dr. Nabarro explained in an interview with The Spectator.
The adviser recalls that closures "have only one consequence that should never be belittled: that of making poor people much poorer.".
The imminent global catastrophe
Nabarro, WHO's head of coronavirus in Europe, warns that global poverty could double next year as a result of the economic crisis caused by the current pandemic, which he calls "a terrible and terrible global catastrophe."
"We may have at least double child malnutrition," Nabarro lamented.
A few months ago, Nabarro warned that the threat of Covid-19 will remain latent to humanity for a long time until there is a vaccine.
Nabarro also stated that it is necessary that all societies "put themselves in a position where they can defend themselves against coronavirus as a constant threat and can engage in social and economic activities."
Confession does more harm: experts; doctors sign up to end this practice
Three of the world's most respected epidemiologists met in Massachusetts to sign the Great Barrington Declaration, a public call to end incarceration policies and adopt a public health strategy they call "Focused Protection."
The statement was signed by doctors Martin Kulldorff, Sunetra Gupta and Jay Bhattacharya, at the American Institute of Economic Research in Great Barrington, Massachusetts.
The declaration states that the blockades are "producing devastating effects" on public health in the short and long term.
Results (to name a few) include lower infant vaccination rates, worsening cardiovascular disease outcomes, fewer cancer screening tests, and deteriorating mental health.
Experts argue that blocking society as a whole causes more harm than well-being, so public health specialists should focus on protecting society's most vulnerable members.
"The most compassionate approach that balances the risks and benefits of achieving collective immunity is to allow those with a minimum risk of death to live their lives normally to develop immunity to the virus through a natural infection, while better protecting those at greater risk," they say.
Since signing the declaration last weekend, more than 4,500 medical and public health scientists, 8,400 doctors, and 118,000 members of the general public have added their names.
Global containment has left a severe economic crisis, which experts say will take years to recover, especially in the poorest countries.