The new coronavirus was not patented by the Pasteur Institute.
A publication shared about 1,000 times on Facebook claims COVID-19 was created in 2003 by the Institut Pasteur in France, which says it has a patent, along with other claims that the disease was induced.
Although the Pasteur Institute has a 2004 patent for coronavirus, it is not COVID-19.
In fact, the fact that viruses are patented does not mean that they have been created.
In this post I give you information and sources of the origin of COVID-19, which has existed since 2003, an international legal patent proving that it was created by people with knowledge in chemical weapons.
The document in question contains 300 pages, as it is all scientific work done and even has its vaccine at the Pasteur Institute in France.
This is an act of mass murder with the intention of killing millions of people.
, begins the long text of the Facebook publication, which has been circulating since March 18.
The text contains other claims such as
The strain was taken in Vietnam
, that coronavirus was expanded
with drones
in the Chinese city of Wuhan, which is
Experiment.
is
"attached to 5G network, chemtrails among other more toxic"
or that it is really intended to spread the virus through a fake vaccine.
Screenshot of a Facebook post, made on March 20, 2020
In French, the claim that the virus was created by this Institute has circulated through a video - already deleted - on Facebook (1) since March 17 and shared over 125,000 times in the first 24 hours.
The images also circulated on WhatsApp and YouTube.
Patent theory also circulates in other languages such as Turkish.
The coronavirus SARS-Cov and SARS-Cov-
The patent to which the publication refers, EP 1 694 829 B1, exists and is available here, in French, as confirmed to AFP by Olivier Schwartz, director of the virus and immunology unit of the Pasteur Institute.
However, it refers to a virus different from the one first detected in late 2019 in China.
We don't patent a virus, we patent the genetic coding of a virus.
, assured Schwartz at AFP.
The genetic code in the patent submitted in 2004 by the Pasteur Institute relates to a strain of SARS (
Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome
, its scientific name), another coronavirus that affected 8,000 people in 30 countries between 2002 and 2003, and caused more than 700 deaths, according to the World Health Organization (WHO).
There is no single coronavirus, there are at least seven, so the content of this sequence
(o genetic code, ndlr)
corresponds to the 2003 epidemic, is a cousin of the virus that centers the current epidemic "
, Schwartz explained.
The virus responsible for COVID-19 and the virus causing severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) are genetically linked, but they are different.
, explains the WHO website.
The virus that causes COVID-19 disease is in fact named SARS-CoV-2, according to the same organism.
There are 80% similarities in its genetic sequence to the 2003 virus, but it's not the same.
, adds the director of the Unit of Viruses and Immunology of the Pasteur Institute.
The vaccines tested in the patent filed in 2004 cannot be reused for the new coronavirus, Schwartz clarified.
due to these differences
I'm sorry.
Patenting is not creating
The viral publication links COVID-19 to SARS-CoV, and details:
"In the first lines of the patent explains... 'The present invention refers to a new strain of coronavirus associated with severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS), resulting from a sample registered with the number 031589 and taken in Hanoi (Vietnam), nucleic acid molecules derived from its genome, proteins and peptides encoded by such nucleic acid molecules and their applications, especially as diagnostic reagents and / or as vaccines'." '..............
I'm sorry.
The above statement appears in the patent document, as can be seen in the following extract:
Screenshot of the patent submitted by the Pasteur Institute in 2004, made on 18 March 2020
In the wake of this fragment, the Facebook post aims to ensure that the genetic coding of SARS-CoV would have been used for
inventory
in the laboratory an evolution of the virus that would be SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19).
But, while there are patents on the genetic codes of viruses, this does not mean that these have been created by
The Hand of Man
as the publication maintains.
In this sense, the term
Invention'
used in the text of the patent has, in French, a different meaning to that of
create
I'm sorry.
The Word
Invention'
may refer to
discoverer
Discovery, Finding.
(according to the fourth meaning of the Larousse dictionary).
On the other hand, the filing of patents related to viruses is common and often
only declarations of discovery
, explained to AFP Vincent Enouf, Deputy Director of the National Centre of Reference (CNR) for Respiratory System Infection Viruses at the Pasteur Institute.
There may be a patent on a technology, on a diagnosis, or on many other things.
, continued, adding that it is mainly about
Protect the Discovery
until, for example, an article is published in a scientific journal.
When you apply for a patent,
describes his technique
, such as choosing a particular area of the virus genome for testing.
SARS-CoV-2, a natural evolution
In line with the findings of the Pasteur Institute, a study published in the journal Nature Medicine and conducted by scientists at the Scripps Research Institute in the United States concluded that the causative coronavirus of COVID-19 is a product of natural evolution.
By comparing the genome sequence data available for known coronavirus strains, we can firmly determine that SARS-CoV-2 originated through natural processes.
, said Kristian Andersen, one of the authors of the study.
The study also highlights the speed with which Chinese scientists extracted the genetic coding of the new virus and made it available to the international scientific community.
The authors of the study focused on analyzing the proteins of the virus that it uses to enter human and animal cells.
They found that
The receptor binding domain
(RBD)
one of those proteins had evolved to effectively attack a molecular feature on the outside of the cells.
So that protein had an enormous capacity to bind human cells.
This led scientists to conclude that it was a natural evolution.
If COVID-19 had been genetically altered in a laboratory or designed as a pathogen, scientists warn it would have been built from a disease-causing virus, such as SARS-CoV.
The basic structure of SARS-CoV-2 differs, according to the study, from the already known coronaviruses, and is similar to that of most related viruses found in bats and pangolins, which also supports the thesis that it was not genetically manipulated.
Why are viruses patented?
The interest of patenting is to protect this sequence in order to develop diagnostic tests and possible vaccines.
, explained Olivier Schwartz to AFP.
The role of the Pasteur Institute, founded in 1888, is precisely to work on emerging viruses to develop treatments and vaccines.
In the case of the document submitted in 2004,
"we patented or protected the sequence, the genetic code, of an isolated virus in Vietnam at the time of the SARS epidemic"
added Schwartz.
At that time, teams at the Pasteur Institute mobilized, proposing numerous vaccine strategies, including a possible measles-based vaccine (the measles vaccine can be recombined and used as a vehicle to induce an immune response to other pathogens such as SARS-CoV).
, explained the Pasteur Institute in a statement that belies the misinformation that has circulated on the networks.
"The knowledge acquired in 2003 against SARS-CoV, and the potential vaccine patented in 2004, are currently being applied by scientists working on a potential vaccine project against SARS-CoV-2, using the measles vaccine as a base" (PDF).
, he said.
As of 20 March 2020, the new coronavirus has already infected about 250,000 people and killed over 10,000, according to official data collected by the AFP, triggering unprecedented containment measures around the world.
In conclusion, the SARS-CoV-2 virus, which causes COVID-19 disease, is very similar to a 2004 patent for SARS-CoV from the Pasteur Institute, but it is not the same.
In turn, the institution refused to be responsible for its creation.
According to research by American scientists, the new coronavirus is the fruit of natural evolution.