Ivermectin: what is known about the treatment against Covid that Province did not admit, although it is endorsed by several provinces and countries
The Government of the Province of Buenos Aires did not admit in the last hours the amparo action brought by Marplatense lawyer Julio Razona against the Ministry of Health of Bonaerense to approve and distribute Ivermectina "to prevent and cure the Covid."
"What I'm asking the province to do is do what seven provinces of Argentina have already done that is to use the drug as a preventive and curative of coronavirus, there is no vaccine that does not have an experimental stage," the lawyer said.
The record went back to Mar del Plata this Friday.
Meanwhile, this week, the lawyer will ask the Court to "cite everyone you have to consult, who will send you all the original bibliography" so that the court will decide if it gives rise to the lawsuit.
If it does, it will order the Province to "administer Ivermectin to the population in a preventive manner."
Meanwhile, international consensus is growing on the benefits in the prevention and early treatment of the drug's coronavirus, a well-known broad-spectrum antiparasitic agent that although its primary indication for many years was for veterinary use, then received FDA approval for use in humans and in clinical research is proving to provide a significant reduction in the risk of infection and encouraging results in the treatment of Covid-positive patients.
Various studies have shown significant antiviral activity in vitro against a wide range of viruses, including the SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus, but new evidence already in studies of prophylaxis with health agents and treatment in infected patients suggests potential protective effects.
In Argentina, although the ANMAT has not approved its use in either prevention or treatment of infection with Covid-19, there are already 5 provinces that recommend it for health personnel and for infected people: Misiones, Salta, Corrientes, Tucumán and La Pampa.
At the same time, pharmacies across the country are seeing an increase in ivermectin prescriptions.
It is said that there are no studies yet made, but there are, and I mention them in the amparo.
There is a huge amount of work that proves that ivermectin is efficient.
It is a drug approved by ANMAT as an antiparasitic that has no side effects and the World Health Organization has declared it an essential drug, "Razona concluded.
WHAT STUDIES SAY
As for the growth of scientific evidence in favour of drugs, the lawyer referred to the project "Evaluation of the antiviral effect of ivermectin drug against SARS-CoV-2," run by a public-private consortium led by Dr. Alejandro Krolewiecki of the Tropical Diseases Research Institute of the Oran Regional Headquarters of the National University of Salta (UNSA).
Specifically, the study states that "the finding of antiviral activity of ivermectin is the result of a clinical study of 45 patients with mild or moderate disease in different hospital centers (CEMIC, Muñiz and Upper Canuelas Basin) and highlights:" Patients who received ivermectin presented an antiviral response significantly different from those not treated, the effect was evidenced in the deepest decrease of viruses in secretions. "
It also
carried out a survey of international studies supporting the benefits of the use of the drug against Covid-19, including works from Spain, Brazil, the United States and the United Kingdom.
A meta-analysis carried out in the United Kingdom by a group of intensive care experts in the COVID-19 First Line Critical Care Alliance (FLCCC) concluded that ivermectin is an essential drug for reducing morbidity and mortality from COVID-19 infection and that, given the results achieved, it is no longer ethical to continue comparative trials between ivermectin and placebo, and that those currently under way should be closed.
The work, titled "ivermectin reduces the risk of death by COVID-19: a rapid review and meta-analysis in support of the COVID-19 first line recommendation.
Critical Care Alliance, "analyzed the results of 25 scientific investigations of ivermectin vs.
placebo in terms of death (primary outcome), improvement or deterioration of condition, recovery time, duration of hospitalization, admission to hospital (for outpatient treatment), admission to critical care unit (or requirement for ventilation), and severe adverse effects.
This review and meta-analysis, which in total included 2,045 participants as prophylaxis and 1,835 positive COVID, confirmed a reduction in mortality of between 65 and 92% (depending on the stage of disease in treated patients) and a decrease in COVID-19 infection of between 82 and 92% when used preventively in health workers and their close contacts.
A 2020 study by a group of Australian scientists led by Dr. Leon Caly in the journal 'Antiviral Research' warned of the potential beneficial effects of ivermectin, demonstrating that it inhibited in vitro replication of the SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus in cell cultures.
A trial of Spanish doctors whose principal investigator was Dr. María Teresa Gómez-Hernández concluded that ivermectin treatment can improve the prognosis of patients with COVID-19.
In parallel, the prestigious Brazilian magazine Braz and Infect published a letter to the editor where a group of researchers from India requested that "beyond the certainties and doubts about this, it is essential that clinical trials conducted on ivermectin include patients with COVID-19 to understand whether this drug can offer beneficial effects in patients who have already developed complications from infection."
And a study of 72 patients entitled "A 5-day course of ivermectin treatment reduces the duration of COVID-19 infection," published in the International Journal of Infections Diseases, concluded that "although the sample from the study was too small (n = 72) to draw solid conclusions, the results provide evidence of the potential benefit of early intervention with ivermectin for the treatment of adult patients diagnosed with mild Covid."
Another study, this time in Florida, USA, titled "Use of ivermectin is associated with lower mortality in hospitalized patients with coronavirus disease 2019," whose findings were published in the CHEST Journal, showed that "ivermectin therapy was associated with lower mortality during Covid-19 treatment, especially in patients with severe pulmonary commitment," clarifying that randomized controlled trials are needed to confirm these findings.
The main adverse effects reported by regular use of ivermectin, which are generally mild and transient and disappear upon discontinuation of treatment, are dizziness, loss of appetite, nausea, vomiting, stomach pain or swelling, diarrhea, constipation, weakness, drowsiness and chest discomfort.