Does anyone know what was the thread of the Galician doctor treating the covid with (I think I remember) azithromycin and antihistamine?
Does it ring a bell?
How can I find him?
Isn't it Yepes?
A Yepes doctor explains that they have found effective treatment for gout: "My patients have been cured"
Independent Republic said: Won't it be in Yepes?
A Yepes doctor explains that they have found effective treatment for gout: "My patients have been cured"
That was it.
Thank you very much.
retarded said: Does it ring to you?
How can I find him?
He was from a village in Toledo.
The azithromycin thing is old.
It was included in
I kit
The price was very low, not nice and cheap.
Desperation over the coronavirus drives Bolivians to buy dubious miraculous cures.
kit
medicines against covid-19 "include drugs such as azithromycin (antibiotic), ivermectin (antiparasitic), ibuprofen (aspirin) and antifludes (influenza).
Due to the action, reports of overprices of medicines appear every day on social media.
An azithromycin pill can cost between 23 and 51 bolivianos (about $3 and $7).
It has even been reported that there are pharmacies selling 10 aspirin tablets at 30 bolivianos (just over $4), while in the United States a 100 pack costs around 65 bolivianos (just over $9).
I have been treated on the seventh day since symptoms began, and I ended up getting bilateral pneumonia on the tenth day.
In the hospital, I 've been switched to Levofloxacin, which is more specific to bacteria that can enter the lung.
They also suspended my antihistamine.
Pneumonia has been resolved in nearly four weeks since symptoms began.
However, what the report says is that this combination applied to the onset of symptoms prevents serious cases and hospital admissions....
The problem of giving antibiotics to every god as prophylactic is that strains of bacteria resistant to them appear and there if you can lie dumb....
Kalvin said: I have been treated on the seventh day since symptoms began, and I ended up entering with bilateral pneumonia on the tenth day.
In the hospital, I 've been switched to Levofloxacin, which is more specific to bacteria that can enter the lung.
They also suspended my antihistamine.
Pneumonia has been resolved in nearly four weeks since symptoms began.
However, what the report says is that this combination applied to the onset of symptoms prevents serious cases and hospital admissions....
The problem of giving antibiotics to every god as prophylactic is that strains of bacteria resistant to them appear and there if you can lie dumb....
Covid diagnosis or pneumonia no more?
Have you been scared?
retarded said: Is diagnostic covid or pneumonia without more?
Have you been scared?
Covid, and the truth, is that when you go into the hospital, with all the information we have, you know... go in 10.... go out 9.... some cantaloupes....
I've had pneumonia a few years ago, and it's not very clear whether it was from fungi or bacteria, they haven't deepened any further... and the symptoms have had nothing to see...
This goes all over your body, the other was a powerful cataract that ended up in your lungs.
No headaches, fever, legs, diarrhea, nausea, lack of smell and taste, disorientation.....
That's right, we've been through 6 cohabitants, and the worst me, the rest of fever and some other isolated symptom, but without entry or pneumonia... You don't want to have to,, I haven...