Getting Paracetamol in Spain
Well, as you would expect, the panic has reached the United Kingdom.
As a good bubble, I filled my inventory of medicines a few weeks ago and I have several boxes of Paracetamol and Ibuprofen.
With the loss of Ibuprofen as a resource, you can't get a miserable box of paracetamol all over the UK.
Is it possible to buy it in Spain?
Do you think it's possible for some family member to send me some boxes?
Is it restricted?
Thank you
So as you 're looking at it, it' s certainly much better that you don 't use any kind of medicine that points to the immune system while you' re exposed to a virus that has no cure.
Let Darwin act.
ominae said: Well as you 're looking at it, it' s certainly much better that you don 't use any kind of medicine that signals the immune system while you' re exposed to a virus that has no cure.
Let Darwin act.
If Darwin were smarter to me I would have been eliminated long ago....
Since I'm going to the hole, at least it doesn't hurt...
Horwich said: If Darwin were smarter to me I would have been eliminated long ago...
Since I'm going to the hole, at least it doesn't hurt...
You don 't make the mistake that everybody is making, there' s evidence that ibuprofen is pretty bad for this, and paracetamol looks like it might be.
For now, the most logical thing is to imitate people who pass the disease with little symptoms and barely take medication.
It 's all very revolutionary in the scientific world with this and there seems to be fat interactions between many drugs consumed in rich countries and replication and entry into the virus cells.
ominae said: You don 't make the mistake that' s being made by everyone, there 's evidence that ibuprofen is pretty bad for this, and paracetamol looks like it might be.
For now, the most logical thing is to imitate people who pass the disease with little symptoms and barely take medication.
It 's all very revolutionary in the scientific world with this and there seems to be fat interactions between many drugs consumed in rich countries and replication and entry into the virus cells.
I take note.
Give you some great cheer.
That said, I'm going to the Deep Web right now for Opio and Heroine.
Keep in mind that "cheap" paracetamol (like ibuprofen) has been limited, unless you go with a medical prescription.
I started a fever on Monday, on Tuesday I called my doctor on the phone and put it in my prescription.
palodearia said: Please note that "cheap" paracetamol (like ibuprofen) has been limited, unless you go with a prescription.
So they don't sell regular and regular paracetamol over the counter anymore?
Here in the UK it 's 500 mg.
Horwich said: Well, as you were awoken, the panic has come to the UK.
As a good bubble, I filled my inventory of medicines a few weeks ago and I have several boxes of Paracetamol and Ibuprofen.
With the loss of Ibuprofen as a resource, you can't get a miserable box of paracetamol all over the UK.
Is it possible to buy it in Spain?
Do you think it's possible for some family member to send me some boxes?
Is it restricted?
Thank you
I just bought a box of 10 pills a gram for 3.95, armed robbery but I don't have drugs at home
I have and I will lapse in the summer of next year.
The 1g
I also have a 400 mg spiking agent.
I also lapse next year
I have reservations.
quintacolumna said: I just bought a box of 10 pills a gram for 3.95, armed robbery but I don't have drugs at home
In the end it will be true that this coronavirus affects the economy....
Note said: I have and I lapse in the summer of next year.
Of 1g I also have a spidifen of 400mg.
I also lapse next year I have reservations
I have epinephrine and ibuprofen in the middle of the hospital.... I'll pass out for sure
quintacolumna said: I just bought a box of 10 pills a gram for 3.95, armed robbery but I don't have drugs at home
This came in August, which limited the sale of ibuprofen and paracetamol over-the-counter in pharmacies.
To make things easier for the immune system, it is essential to let the fever rise, which prevents paracetamol Taking paracetamol is to make things easier for infection.
It is much more interesting to take natural supplementation to enhance the immune system.
Paracetamol sticks to the wheels of the immune system and is hepatotoxic.
In Germany, they 're only treating fever from the' 40s, maybe that 's helping the Covid' s mortality rate to be much lower there.
In Spain there is fever in common diseases.
And you put children in their heads from infancy.
People think fever is the disease, not a reaction of the immune system...