Coronavirus: in a national study, they concluded that recovered plasma is not effective for serious cases
The work, which boosted 12 medical centers in the country, was done on 334 patients, of whom 222 were given plasma and the others, saline solution.
It doesn't work.
Although it was widely used, and was announced to save lives, Covid-19's convalescent plasma did not yet have sufficient evidence to know how effective it can become a proven treatment.
And the first in-depth work on potential treatment did not go down the expected path.
"The results of the PlasmAr study show that among patients hospitalized with Covid-19 pneumonia with severity criteria, the use of convalescent plasma did not produce a significant clinical benefit at the 7, 14, or 30-day follow-up compared to placebo," says the press information leaked on social media, despite a call to journalists for tomorrow, where doctors will give more details.
The work was done by a group of Argentine researchers from the Italian Hospital in Buenos Aires and eleven other hospitals in the country, and is the first research done worldwide with the proper requirements of the best scientific medical test.
The work was done on 334 patients, of whom 222 were given plasma and the others saline; the average age was 62 years with 68% of men.
The rest of the technical details will be published in the coming weeks, first through the option known as
And then possibly in one of the most important medical journals in the world.
The convalescent plasma, that is, from people who had the disease and recovered, was one of the first treatments for Covid used, because it works for other infectious diseases successfully (e.g., Argentine hemorrhagic fever).
And it 's based on the idea that one person' s antibodies can respond to another until one 's own immune response is generated.
But, as rare as it seems, and more than nine months after the new coronavirus appeared, there was still no work as complete as that carried out by the Argentine team, even though several states around the world have spent millions of dollars promoting and using plasma as if it were a conventional and approved treatment.
So far there have been only so-called "observational studies," in which it is not possible to measure what would have happened to the patient without that treatment.
This bias seeks to eliminate trials with placebo (a saline solution, rather than plasma) and "double blind" (neither the patient nor the doctor knows what to give and receive).
Comparisons
So far, of the 408 studies worldwide recorded with plasma for Covid-19, there were none.
Observational work had found good results, but not compared to placebo.
The Mayo Clinic in the United States, one of the leading in plasma use, released a study entitled "The effect of convalescent plasma on patients hospitalized with Covid-19: initial three-month experience," where a relationship had been found between plasma transfusion and lower mortality in 35,322 patients.
But at the same time they had recognized that, in the middle of the emergency, the procedure had not been done by a standardized protocol.
That issue, the pandemic emergency, was precisely one of the facts that conspired against the idea of generating placebo trials: if the plasma is so good, it was thought, giving saline to a patient who could die might be intolerable for ethics committees.
Other studies
However, following the study of the Italian Hospital, other studies in the same direction are expected to corroborate or not the futility of plasma use.
Indeed, the United States' own National Institutes of Health have announced that they will soon begin recruiting patients to provide a scientific response to the issue.
And, in Argentina, the results of a similar study by researchers from the Children's Foundation and the Central Military Hospital are still awaited.
Gonzalo Pérez Marc, who works in this clinical trial, indicated that the Italian Hospital's research is of good quality and is very well designed, but that it does not go against the idea of his group, who thought it would be interesting to choose plasma just given the infection.
"Our instance is for early use, before the disease is installed, in the first 48 hours, so that somehow our hypothesis still holds with the negative result of the Italian Hospital," he told the NACION.
Perez Marc added that they may have results next week and that they already have more than 150 patients enrolled, also with a control group receiving placebo.
If the results are good, it would be an option for patients who are close contacts and have some kind of risk condition, by age or previous illness.
The plasma had even been the subject of controversy when the idea that its use had cured some celebrities was popularized and there were even court claims that it should be granted to all patients.