% as soon as you think COVID has left a laboratory
And what other alternative is there?
What happens when you cook the pangolin at the chinito shift?
90%, but the virus has mutated, so far fewer people die.
If the number of PCR's is true, there are many infected but very few with serious symptoms.
I'm not a doctor, I have no idea about viruses.
100% more and more evidence.
Another thing is whether it was intentional or by mistake.
In any case, it has been used as an excuse to screw up the rest of the world and to make China grow the bone.
It has also highlighted our economy, based on tourism and bars.
That is not how a country can work.
We need industrial plans, but our politicians are in other things...
28.8%
100%, is a Frankenstein monster mixture of common flu, SARS and AIDS (fever, shortness of breath, general weakness for the immune system of smallpox)
99% this is World War III, which happens that we 're used to treating world wars like World Wars I and II, but the new weapons are biological weapons, drones and nanotechnology.
Other:
Originally written by HumperCobra 100% Aclaro, I do not believe it is a conspiracy nor has it been "released" for any purpose.
I just think that in the Wuhan lab, where they were experimenting with a variant of SARS (what a coincidence), they made a human mistake and escaped.
What a coincidence that in all the countries you found your patient 0, except in China, where you only got to 1, wasn 't patient 0 a lab worker?
I think so.
And I didn 't know about patient 0.
I think it was for throwing collars on the floor.
0%
Trance Platform in Vena Partner #191 Alien Platform Partner #33
Other:
Originally written by franciscofjpa10 The Chinese doctor who is now dating in the fourth millennium says that at 100%
What it doesn't say is who finances it.
0.1% statistically, it is most likely to have left nature.
Time will speak.
Now 0.5%
99% the rest is mustard broth
100% modified by man in China and released on purpose.
All that really matters is the present moment.
99%
Other:
Originally written by humpercobra 100% clear, I do not believe it is a conspiracy nor has it been "released" for any purpose.
I just think that in the Wuhan lab, where they were experimenting with a variant of SARS (what a coincidence), they made a human error and escaped.
What a coincidence that in all the countries you found your patient 0, except in China, where you only got to 1, wasn 't patient 0 a lab worker?
It doesn't matter.
Discussing that is a smokescreen.
The real question here is why they 're taking advantage of all this to make changes in society.
Other:
Originally written by HumperCobra 100% Aclaro, I do not believe it is a conspiracy nor has it been "released" for any purpose.
I just think that in the Wuhan lab, where they were experimenting with a variant of SARS (what a coincidence), they made a human mistake and escaped.
What a coincidence that in all the countries you found your patient 0, except in China, where you only got to 1, wasn 't patient 0 a lab worker?
No accident.
It is easier to detect an intruder when an alarm sounds than an infiltrator no one is looking for.
Common Sense.
95%
Every slice of bread is the sad story of a wheat that may have been beer.
100%
Other:
Originally written by franciscofjpa10 The Chinese doctor who is now dating in the fourth millennium says that at 100%
According to her, was it accidental or intentional?
Other:
Originally written by eltrapecillo I a 20% which is from a laboratory.
You?