Coconut oil versus COVID-19
This coconut oil is of first pressure, that of maximum quality and purity: https: / / www.essentiales.com / oils-primera-presión-frio / oil-coco-primera-presión-frio.html
Hello... In Costa Rica, you know where I can get good quality coconut oil?
I bought in pricemart, looks good quality, but doesn't come in glass packaging.
Hello Rocío: From Spain it is difficult to know where to buy coconut oil in your country, but if you look at Google "where to buy organic coconut oil on rich coast" you have websites where to choose and which are close to where you live, look for the coconut oil to have a seal that guarantees its purity examples htps: / / laboticaverde.cr / coconut-oil / htps: / comprasinplastico.com / product / coconut-virgin-oil /
If it's very miraculous, I use it as a lubricant...
Hello thank you very much for the article.
I am from Argentina and wanted to know what good brand I can get here.
Thank you very much Greetings
Hello I am from Mexico I would like to know where they sell the organic coconut oil trust some brand that recommend me to be as natural as possible.
I'll be more precise.
Hello living in Denver Colorado, very often consuming coconuts, the thing is, the label says it doesn't consume water, my husband and I eat it all except water my question is, does anyone know of any brand that is well recommended?
Thank you for so much information.
Hello Eugenia: I don't know where you can buy coconut water in your country, but I guess if you can access websites of ecological products or a store of ecological products in your city, you can buy either the water or virgin coconut oil to take it and take advantage of its properties.
https: / / www.tienanaturals/
Your information is very good!
But as for Coco Oil, it wasn 't you who discovered it, it was a Dominican, Doctor Urban who first published that Coco Oil cures Corona Virus and HIV.
Doctor Urban has been publishing it since the virus started for more than 7 months.
You can see it on YouTube.
Thank you
Good afternoon, where I can get reliable coconut oil in Argentina (Buenos Aires)
In Argentina, you can get it in naturist or dietetic houses.
It's been two months since I've been taking it, an employee of mine contracted the virus, my husband too, and I... nothing, completely free of infection.
Wonderful.
Hello, thank you for publishing this valuable information!
I shared my experience: days ago I was diagnosed with COVID and when I started treating the disease I decided to heed what I had read about coconut oil: that it was good for fighting viruses.
So I prepared a lemon tea, turmeric and pepper with a spoonful of virgin coconut oil, and I took it twice a day.
The symptoms, though strong, passed quickly and every time I took the tea my fever dropped (I came to 38.8).
Luckily it only lasted two days, so I think coconut oil helped.
I hope it will help them too!
Take care of yourself.
I forgot to say that tea sweetened him with lots of honey, greetings!
Hello Eugenia: What valuable testimony you have given us, coconut oil is very powerful against viruses and bacteria, honey also helped because it has antibacterial properties and helps strengthen the immune system among many other qualities, the more natural it is better, avoid those sold in supermarkets, if it is pasteurized means that it has undergone a high temperature process which kills many of its properties.
I hope more people will try this sweet combination before buying chemical drugs.
Thank you very much for your contribution greetings
Hello to you I write from Venezuela, here much coconut is given, however in stores sell processed coconut oil not fit for consumption.
I 've been making my own oil for over a year now, as you publish it.
Do not consume it as they say here, although sometimes I make fried bananas with that oil, they become delicious.
I started using coconut oil with a make-up remover, then I used to put it on every day before the make-up, you can't expose yourself to the sun because it makes you.
It's not sticky, it has a very rich aroma, I give massages on my feet and hands, also for my tight hair.
When you make oil at home, after you drain the oil, there 's a very exquisite cream, I' m going to store it in the freezer, it serves to spread like butter, sometimes I make breads stuffed with that cream, you also make cookies, actually the cream is delicious and doesn 't need sugar, it' s pretty sweet.
The coconut is not lost at all!
Hello Caléndula; It is wonderful the uses you give to coconut oil, and I think it is a very good alternative for all people who find it difficult to buy coconut oil in shops, I also use it to clean my face, and when I come out of the shower I anoint with it to avoid putting creams with chemicals, that of using as butter with the rest of the homemade preparation of coconut oil at home I loved.
Thank you so much for sharing greetings,
Where I can get the coconut oil you can drink in PR. In the western area "San Juan, Puerto Rico" if possible and as called Gracias.
In Colombia where do you get it?
I just did, cold.
Hi I'm from Argentina and I saw a lot of coconut oil but it's the one that gets refined like getting organic.
Coconut oil is very good I use it because my Cardiologist sent me to take it to strengthen the veins but helped me in many other things I have a high immune system and help you with the real abdominal fat that I recommend I have been using it for over two years.
Thank you
Hi, if there are places in Peru where they sell, at home we used it two years ago, we all did positive but nobody got complicated.
I was infected but I was asymptomatic but if I had the symptoms I was more than a month old with a cough and a hangover that didn't take anything away from me but since I entered a healthy diet because I wanted to lose weight and started taking every morning on fasts coconut oil 2 spoonfuls of the symptoms were removed and the cough disappeared
Hello Victor: I am very glad that coconut oil has served you, your comment serves to give readers real testimonies about coconut oil and its virtues, the truth is that good health begins with a healthy diet, a good attitude and above all the knowledge to know that we have a great store of natural products that help us to be in harmony.
Thank you and greetings.
What do you use for fasting?
Excellent article!
I love coconut in all its versions; however, I hardly consume coconut oil.
Now I know how important it will be to achieve greater and better consumption of coconut oil.
Greetings from Mexico City!
Very good article!
I bought the coconut oil two months ago and I didn't encourage myself to take it because I have a half-delicate stomach, can you tell me if it falls very heavy or if I can take it calmly?
Thank you very much!
Coconut oil is excellent has one of the benefits from inside the organism outwards I have over 6 months to use it and it is extraordinary.
How do you take it?
Hey.
Hey, Mr. Anthony, an extraordinary article that teaches us a lot of things.
Interesting thanks, I am glad to know that more and more people are choosing to prevent the disease with natural products that have been used since our ancestors and that we have now stopped using for the convenience of modern medicines.
Here in our Isla de Margarita a remarkable doctor together with his team are applying LA HEMATERAPIA with excellent results and even more in these times of crisis, it is Dr. Raimundo Luna, Dr. Keila Campos and his excellent team in which La Lic stand out.
Iris Ivette Ibarra, La Lic, Sandra among other personalities dedicated to the sector HEALTH PUBLICA You are right to take the coconut oil alone, worry, it is important to take it alone or accompanied. I my entire life path is consumed in all forms from a dish of beans glued with coconut oil Saludos from La Perla del Caribe Isla de Margarita article that teaches us a lot of things.
Interesting A cordial greeting and a warm embrace away from La Perla del Caribe Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela
An extraordinary article that teaches us a lot of things.
It is interesting to say that I have been cured of a chronic rhinitis that has lasted for more than two years and that has worsened after a severe flu.
Doctors had no solutions, except for oral sprays and antihistamines.
When the epidemic of the covid was starting, I looked online for solutions to my problem and listened to Frank Suarez and Jesús Boj.
The result was that by taking four products three times a day, during the three meals, I was quickly cut off from the congestion.
I 've been taking these products for over a month and a half now, and I think in two months I' ll stop taking them.
The products are: before breakfast VITAMINA C (0.5 G), VITAMINA D3 (1 PERLA), followed by a 1 G tablet of L-LISIN and during breakfast 1 CUCHARADA SOPERA DE ACEITE DE COCO, continuing with the same dosage at half-day and also identical at dinner, but decreasing the dose of coconut oil during dinner.
I think full healing can take up to two months, a time like that of the shots, although decongestation with improvement starts within a few days of starting treatment as the laryngeal and nasal congestion are cut with the stopper, pecker and broom.
This formula could be the solution for influenza.
Excuse me for taking cds mms or something like that, is asking thanks
Hey!
Great information!
Everything very well explained!
can I link this information to my facebook for my customers?
Thank you
Hello Pilar Of course you can share the information if you think it can be useful to your followers on Facebook.
A hug from Alicante Spain.
Hello Boricua, I also came to this page to search for information and I was also looking at the videos of Dr.
It 's okay if you take it that way, Anthony, we put it in the creams in the gingerbread or lemon theses and we have to try to incorporate it into steam therapy.
In Puerto Rico, coconut oil is used a lot and above all its consumption.. is recommended by many naturopaths to prevent and better health conditions.. Dr. Ruth Marie Calderon, who exercises her profession from Florida USA, has a video on YouTube where she talks about this same report.. in my opinion I use it as recommended in this report, the only thing that I take the 3 tablespoons of coconut oil alone and not in two.. I don't know if I am well.. if you could help me would be grateful..
Thank you..
Hi Anthony, thanks for your comment, I'm glad to know that more and more people are choosing to prevent the disease with natural products that have been used since our ancestors and that we have now stopped using for the convenience of modern medicines.
You are right to take coconut oil alone, on our page we add other ways to take it, by means of beats or infusions for people who do not like the taste of the oil or the texture if you take it alone.
But don't worry, it's important to take it alone or accompanied. Greetings from Alicante Spain.
I just read that coconut oil is very good for the cure of COVID-19 as I could get it.
in my country.
Lima Peru is not known that the oil of Coco against the COVID-19 I would like to have more information, since there are thousands of people in the world are dying near this evil, please would like more information and how to use it, thank you for in advance.
how to acquire it and how to use it.
Carola Correa C.
Hi Carola, nice to meet you.
I have seen that it can be easily purchased in online shops in Peru.
I give you several links: Yauvanaperu Wong mercantile metro I hope I have helped you.
Greetings from Alicante Spain.
In Peru, I recommend the coconut oil Bioselva, as they are the only ones to have certified their organic production and equal quality is very good.
We found her in Plaza Vea....
Saludos, excellent article, I give faith in the goodness of del.Coco oil, in Ecuador, you can buy it in:
* COCO ACUTE * Extra Virgin 100% natural mark * "COCO VIDA" * Extracted to cold NO Hydrogenated.
With Health Record NS # 806944-ALN4954 500 ml glass bottle presentation.
1 / 2 liters.
Value $20, oo (Does not include shipping.)
Distributed by: * "NATURALIS 100% natural" * Pedidos al: + 593 99 672 6085 naturalis.ec @ gmail.com Guayaquil - Ecuador
We have coconut oil from wild coconuts of the Peruvian Amazon, it is a premium certified organic quality.
whatsapp 960412019 for Lima Peru
Hi Carola, I'm producing coconut oil HEVCO, I've been researching since 2017 at UNALM.
is an excellent food.
Let me contact you.
Phrasazac @ gmail.com william robert palomino rodríguez.