The Myth That Coronavirus Was Created in an American Laboratory
This of the cells on coronavirus seems to have no end.
Almost every day someone appears who puts us on notice and who we have to unmask so he doesn't fool more people.
Sometimes it 's complicated, because
in question are used some true data to trace more than one.
Fortunately, there are media outlets and institutions such as the Civil Guard and the National Police that alert us to these lies that, day after day as well, flood our social networks and to which we may be victims.
The Covid-19 was created in a laboratory in Fort Detrick, United States, to slow down the development of 5G technology and to kill the elderly.
I'm lying!
It is only another conspiracy theory that provides no evidence to support it.
This particular one has been published on the online blog
And we know that because scientists from several countries have analyzed the genomes of the agent that causes the virus and have concluded that its origin is in the wild.
The Myth That the Coronavirus Came From an American Laboratory
Albert Bosch Navarro, president of the Spanish Society of Virology, says: "Whenever a new epidemic appears, rumors of its creation are heard in a laboratory.
It happened in 2002 with SARS, in 2009 with H1N1 and now with Covid-19. "
Articles published in prestigious scientific journals such as
Naturmedicin
confirm Bosch's words by arguing that none of these viruses have been created in a laboratory or intentionally manipulated.
With regard to the goal of ending the elderly, this blur is dramatic, as it refers to a supposed quote by former International Monetary Fund President Christine Lagarde that "the elderly live too much and that is a risk to the global economy."
Of course, there is no evidence that Lagarde has ever made such statements; indeed, the European Central Bank, the body that now chairs Lagarde, has already denied this information.
But that 's how they work.
Fakte Nyheter
, giving the appearance of truthfulness to expressions that have never been pronounced or that have not been pronounced by the person in question.
Another unmasked hoax!