The Spanish Society of Preventive Medicine advises against the use of gloves to protect against coronavirus
A mother wearing gloves to her son NIUS
The use of gloves is not necessary to protect against coronavirus.
This is the conclusion reached by the professionals of the Spanish Society of Preventive Medicine, Public Health and Hygiene (SEMPSPH).
Doctors explain that gloves do not provide additional protection from hand hygiene and may even increase the chances of virus transmission between people or through contact with potentially contaminated surfaces.
SEMPSPH recommends that gloves not be used during normal daily activity, so they demand that they stop offering and that their use be not mandatory at the entrance of establishments.
On the other hand, they consider it essential to avoid contagion that extends hand washing with water and soap or products with an alcoholic basis such as those collected by the Spanish Medicines and Health Products Agency so that customers clean their hands when entering and leaving establishments.
Preventive doctors explain that gloves are not needed because the virus cannot penetrate healthy skin and therefore it is not possible to transmit the disease in this way.
Gloves, moreover, are as susceptible to contamination as the skin and to remove them without contamination of the hands is not easy and requires a specific technique.
They are not used correctly - say - because they should only be used when there is an express indication, as can be for choosing fruits and vegetables, and after finishing they should be removed immediately.
Doctors recommend washing hands before and after using them because the fact that they are carried does not prevent us from touching our face (to adjust the glasses or mask or to remove the hair) and becoming infected.
Hand hygiene on gloves explains that it is less effective than on bare hands because a glove can be folded where no hydroalcoholic solution or soap is available, and can also be eroded by cleaning products, leaving areas that can become potential reservoirs of microorganisms.
On the other hand, gloves can create a false sense of security, causing users not to take proper precautions to avoid contact with potentially contaminated surfaces or not to wash their hands properly later.
Also, the use of this protective element involves a loss of touch and the contamination goes unnoticed.
Experts in preventive medicine have also spoken out against temperature-taking in shops, work centres and other establishments, and recall that the Spanish Data Protection Agency has already issued a statement expressing its concern about this type of action.
SEMPSPH professionals do not recommend the systematic measurement of temperature or any other biological parameter in non-sanitary establishments "without the consent of the competent health authorities."
The measurement of body temperature explains that it is not considered an optimal test to detect cases of disease, because about 30% of COVID-19 cases in Spain have not been treated with fever and when this present can be intermittent and pass unnoticed at the time of control.
The high temperature explains that it may be due to the effect of certain medications, which is part of the clinical history of people who do not need to be known by entrepreneurs, or there may be no fever at the time of measurement by the taking of anti-termites.