Norway: Suspending the application of contact tracing for COVID-19, a major achievement for the right to privacy
The Norwegian government's decision to stop using its contact tracing application for COVID-19 is a great achievement for the right to privacy, and was adopted hours before Amnesty Public's groundbreaking analysis of the application.
Amnesty International today released an analysis of contact tracing applications used in Europe and the Middle East and North Africa, concluding that the Norwegian application Smitttestopp is one of the most alarming in terms of privacy.
The reason is that direct or almost direct tracking of user locations is achieved by frequently sending GPS coordinates to a central server.
On 2 June, Amnesty International shared its findings with the Ministry of Justice and Public Security, the Institute of Public Health and the country's Data Protection Agency.
The organization also met with the person responsible for the development of the application "Smitttestopp" on 10 June.
The Norwegian application is deeply invasive and endangers people's privacy.
Pushing the pause button and returning to the drawing table to design an application where privacy is most important is the right decision, "said Claudio Guarnieri, director of Amnesty International's Security Lab project.
We were so alarmed by how invasive the application is in its current form that we shared our conclusions with the Norwegian authorities and asked them to change course.
There are better options available to compensate with loss of privacy for the need to track the disease, and we hope that authorities will take the opportunity to investigate them.
This case should serve as a warning to all governments that are hastily adopting invasive applications whose design endangers human rights.
Privacy does not have to be a victim of the implementation of these applications................
Supplementary information
On Tuesday, Amnesty International released key findings from its Security Lab study on contact tracing applications in Europe and the Middle East and North Africa, including a detailed technical analysis of 11 applications used in Algeria, Bahrain, the United Arab Emirates, France, Iceland, Israel, Kuwait, Lebanon, Norway, Qatar and Tunisia.
Contact tracing is an important component of an effective pandemic response, and contact tracing applications can be useful for this purpose.
But in order to be compatible with human rights, such applications must, among other things, incorporate data protection and privacy into their design, which means that the data collected must be minimal and stored safely.
Any data collection should be limited to controlling the spread of COVID-19 and not serve any other purpose, such as enforcing the law, ensuring national security or controlling immigration.
It should not be made available to third parties or used for commercial purposes.
In addition, the individual decision to download and use contact tracing applications must be entirely voluntary and the confidentiality of all collected data must be protected, even if combined with other data sets.