Beef does not transmit Covid-19
Coronavirus is not transmissible through food.
They ratified that meat does not transmit Covid-19 and analysed the various measures implemented by the refrigeration industry to ensure the safety of the product and the health of workers.
The Instituto de Promoción de la Carne Vacuna Argentina (IPCVA) conducted its first virtual workshop on "Good practices in the food industry," which aimed to analyse the measures taken within the meat production chain in response to the coronavirus pandemic.
The event was attended by over 300 attendees who followed it live through the Zoom platform.
During the meeting it was ratified that meat does not transmit Covid-19 and the various measures implemented by the refrigeration industry to ensure the safety of the product and the health of workers were analysed.
The opening was handled by Ulises Forte, President of the IPCVA, who said that "we all know that difficult times are coming, that the world is going to change, that the commercial reality and demands after this stage will be different, so it is imperative to think about the future how we proceed."
Fernando Sampedro (Instructor, International Consultant, Food Safety Risk Analysis, Risk Communication Leadership, Professor at the University of Minnesota) referred to "Integrated risk management in the agri-food chain."
According to the specialist, the pandemic "has left us two fundamental components in managing the crisis: on the one hand, we have the human component, that is, these protocols have to be implemented by people, company workers, and on the other hand, what has left us is the importance of having a culture of safety in food companies."
He also stressed that the chain should report that coronavirus "is not transmitted by food, as has been said by various international actors, the European Food Safety Agency, the World Health Region, i.e. most regulatory agencies, is a respiratory virus that is not transmitted by food."
"Neither is there any evidence that is transmitted in packaging, nor is there any evidence that affects livestock, cattle, pigs, or poultry," he said.
"It is destroyed with temperature, that is, the cooking destroys Covid-19 and in addition most disinfectants used by the food industry will eliminate it," he noted.
For the consultant, "the main thing is that all cargo companies should have a work safety protocol, they should have a coordinator, a contact, they should be in writing and they should communicate in different ways, they should have written protocols, they should have visual posters all over the plant, and they should also give talks to explain what the work safety protocol the company has to use."
The meeting was moderated by Med. Vet, Jorge Torelli, Secretary of Agrofoods of the Ministry of Production, Science and Technology of the Province of Santa Fe.
The other papers were "The Epidemiological Perspective" by Dr. Omar Sued (physician infectologist, holder of the Argentine Society of Infectology and member of the Committee of Experts advising the President of the Nation), and "The Vision of Senasa" by Med. Vet.
Gustavo Adolfo Soto Kruse (Ph.
Director of Inocinady quality of animal product of SENASA).
The closure was handled by Sebastian Bendayán (Coordinator of the IPCVA's Internal Promotion Commission on behalf of the refrigeration industry), who thanked the deserters and assured that the workshop was enriching for the entire national refrigeration industry.
The Liniers Market operated with a 3.74% rise in the Novillo Index
The Liniers Market rises with general casualties
The Liniers Market dropped the estate by 2.88%