persons
by Makia Freeman from TheFreedomArticles website Pleyades Library translation
FROM A VISITOR
HISTORY: A 2018 study shows a severe hypoxia-blood clot connection.
Since hypoxia is under oxygenation, the use of masks may cause serious or even fatal health problems for some people.
THE IMPLICATIONS: Now that even a May 2020 CDC study (involving the WHO) concluded that masquerades are not effective in stopping the transmission of influenza, how much more evidence do people need to stop using masquerades and cooperate with their own slavery?
A 2018 study highlights the hypoxia-blood clot connection (exacerbated by mascara), while a May 2020 CDC study (with WHO participation) concludes,
The masks are not effective in stopping the transmission of the flu...!
The scientific study titled Hypoxia Downregulates Protein S Expression via a severe and potentially lethal hypoxia-blood clot connection.
The study, published in July 2018, describes how hypoxia (a low concentration of oxygen) decreases the protein S in the blood, a
naturlig antikoagulant
I...
This leads to an increased risk of developing thrombosis or blood clots, some of which are life-threatening.
The study was unique in that it was the first time research had shown that hypoxia could increase the risk of blood clots due to a molecular cause.
The global agenda of rules for wearing masks is not only unconstitutional and illegal in many nations, but is also causing massive hypoxia among the general population.
In addition to the hypoxia-blood clot link, hypoxia also leads to,
fatigue, headaches, nausea, cognitive impairment, low energy levels and decreased immunity, causing massive damage to the population...
In the meantime, many jurisdictions continue to implement masquerade mandates, despite the fact that a recent CDC study even concluded that
the masks were
inefficace
and did not offer a significant reduction in influenza transmission.
In addition, mask mandates continue to violate workplace guidelines (such as OSHA standards in the US which state that the oxygen levels allowed for employees must be equal to or greater than 19.5% at all times).
The study is based on the fact that protein S is a natural blood anticoagulant, as it inhibits a key coagulation protein, Factor IXa.
This is the summary of the study:
They found that the increase in hypoxia not only reduced PS but also significantly increased a protein that activates the gene to produce hypoxia.This suggested that protein, factor,,,,,,,,,,,,,.,,,,,,
The study found that the level of protein S was reduced by 50% when O levels were found to.............
were 15% (instead of the normal 21%).
A very well-cited article by
Oregon Dissenters
entitled '
extrapolates this research and explains the implications:
Only a 5% drop in blood oxygenation is considered 'abnormal', but a 15% reduction will cause notable symptoms.
These include headaches, dizziness, nausea, and cognitive impairment.
Even surgeons can suffer from low levels of O
And symptoms associated with simply wearing a surgical mask... At sea level, the air we breathe is 21 percent oxygen.
The commonly used N95 mask eclipses that elevation; it is well known to cause a 20% reduction in the O
, which simulates 16% of O
As the N95 simulates an equally low oxygen saturation, this indicates that wearing a mask can decrease your natural ability to prevent blood clots by 50%.
A web search for "covid blood clot" returns many stories about virus-induced blood clotting and its lethality to these patients.
Think about that for a moment... Some, like Dr. Robert Young, have proposed that COVID is blood coagulation and not viral in nature.
It's a situation of
chicken and egg
, but if hypoxia is leading to COVID, or COVID is leading to hypoxia, or if you start the descending cycle where they feed on each other, there is strong evidence of a connection, and all of that assumes that COVID is a distinct new disease (which is difficult to show given the vague general symptoms and that SARS-CoV-2 has failed Koch's postulates).
Given this, wearing a mask is the worst you can do, infected or not, because it blocks your vital oxygen supply!
Oregon Dissenters
continues:
"I imagine people who would otherwise survive their COVID-19 case with a mask to" protect others "and essentially commit suicide... I'm sure you can identify the many problems with the intentional increase of blood clot risk for the general population through mass mandatory masking.
Millions of people are already taking anticoagulants just to stay alive.
How could it be a good idea to hinder your already diminished natural coagulation capacity?
And what about people who don 't know they have an existing coagulation disorder and then wear a mask at work for hours?...
Why this extremely serious and potentially fatal side effect of wearing a mask, especially the
, have not been the subject of widespread health warnings?
How could a qualified health official not know about the well-established dangers of the blood clot of mandatory hypoxia for the masses, especially patients with COVID-19? "
Only from a health perspective, without even entering into legality or ritualistic aspects, the use of masks is a seriously damaging idea due to the hypoxia-blood clot connection.
When will we reach the point where a critical mass of people stop fulfilling this madness?
2 of the main institutions that draw up the official narrative as planned in
CDC and WHO, Event 201 The 'CDC May 2020 Study' finds masquerades NOT effective for healthy or sick people Meanwhile, take a look at this new study
, approved by,
WHO (World Health Organization)
the CDC (Centre for Disease Control),
... published on the CDC website where he says the study was,
"in preparation for the development of guidelines by the World Health Organization on the use of non-pharmaceutical interventions for pandemic influenza in non-medical settings." (PDF).
This was a study established specifically during the COVID 'pandemic'.
The conclusion?
Masquerades
not sound
Effective...!
I will quote directly from the study:
In our systematic review, we identified 10 RCAs [randomized controlled trials] that reported estimates of the effectiveness of facial masks to reduce laboratory-confirmed influenza virus infections in the literature community published between 1946 and 27 July 2018. In the pooled analysis, no significant reduction in influenza transmission was found with the use of facial masks.
Whether you 're sick and infected and trying to protect others (stop the spread), or whether you' re not infected and trying to protect yourself, masquerades do not offer significant help in doing so in any way:
There is limited evidence of its effectiveness in preventing transmission of influenza virus, either when used by the infected person to control the source or when used by uninfected persons to reduce exposure. Our systematic review did not find a significant effect of mascara on laboratory confirmed influenza transmission.
These studies are also based on the assumption that people use masks correctly, which is a very generous assumption, given the improvised fabric mask people use, the fact that they are generally not well sealed on the side of the face and the fact that people tend to play with them.
Misuse actually has the opposite effect; it increases the risk of transmission:
Proper use of facial masks is essential because improper use could increase the risk of transmission.
And the exciting conclusion is...
We
not found
evidence that surgical masks are effective in reducing laboratory confirmed influenza transmission, either when used by infected people (source code control) or by people in the general community to reduce their susceptibility. "
Boom!
Thus, the CDC and WHO have essentially admitted in their own words, or sanctioning words, that masks do not work for flu-like diseases, no matter who uses them.
Look at Ben Swann's analysis below:
In the meantime,
governors
and others
Power hungry officials
are implementing all kinds of unconstitutional and absurd threats and sanctions for those who do not dare to wear diapers or diapers.
Authorities in,
Broward County, Florida, issued an emergency order requiring people to wear masks inside their own homes; Washington, DC
Mayor Muriel Bowser issued an executive order to wear a mandatory mask with a $1,000 citation for rape.
Officials in Englewood Colorado passed a law that allows them to imprison people potentially for a year for not wearing a mask
Masquerade use - The calculated strategy of 'divide to beat' Masquerade has become a very divisive topic among people, all as was thought - designed... This fake pandemic has been calculated cold and brilliantly to take power, keep people in fear and put them in confrontation with others.
Instead of focusing on Bill Gates, the Rockefeller Foundation or other aspects of NOM (New World Order),
People are fighting with themselves for the masquerades, and those who refuse to do so are attacked for being 'disrespectful' and 'irresponsible', regardless of their legal rights and ability to make their own health decisions...
A recent commentator on DavidIcke.com wrote that people are too busy fighting each other, becoming enemies, who can't see
to the real enemy who is working to enslave 99.99% of the world:
I know we're all one at the end, I still feel that these people are my 'enemy' and that makes me really uncomfortable to say the least, and feel like I'm their enemy, when the real enemy is out orchestrating this whole movie script.
Final Thoughts has happened so much in the last five months that it has been really surreal.
Just remember what Dr. Anthony Fauci said at the beginning of
the fraud
before changing its tone to
march to the order of the day:
There's no reason to walk with a mask.
When you're in the middle of an outbreak, wearing a mask can make people feel a little better and can even block a drop, but it doesn't provide the perfect protection that people believe.
Irrespective of the
think people
misinformed
, science shows how serious the use of masks can be for ordinary people because of the hypoxia-blood clot link.
How much more time will people receive
Medical marching orders
of politicians