Everything you need to know about the remedigger
Refreshment tours at Gilead facilities in California.
Any progress in stopping coronavirus is welcome, but, like the same virus, there is still much to learn about this drug that has been approved by the US.
Question: What exactly is rebroadcasting?
Answer: The drug developed by Gilead is, in the words of the same pharmaceutical company, a "nucleotide analogue with broad spectrum antiviral activity."
It was developed to address the Ebola epidemic in West Africa in 2014 and subsequently demonstrated activity against SARS-CoV coronaviruses and MERS-CoV.
Question: How is it administered and for how long?
Answer: Remdesivir is manufactured in injections administered intravenously.
Gilead recalls that it is still unknown what dose and optimal duration of treatment should be, but the FDA emergency use authorisation suggests 5 and 10 days of treatment, depending on the severity of the disease.
Question: How does it work in our body?
Response: It acts by inactivating an enzyme that some viruses need to replicate.
Without this enzyme (an RNA polymerase), viruses, in this case SARS-Cov-2, lose the ability to make copies of their genome and continue to multiply.
Question: What will it be used for and in what cases?
Answer: This emergency authorization is only for the treatment of Covid-19, not for any other virus or pathogen.
In the case of coronavirus, approval allows it to be used in patients in severe condition: those who have low blood oxygen levels (oxygen saturation below 94%) or who need mechanical ventilated breathing support.
Priority will be given to the most affected areas, which could soon reach New York, the epicentre of the pandemic in the US.
Question: What are the side effects?
Answer: The FDA has reported possible side effects of this drug, including increased liver enzyme levels - it can be a sign of inflammation or damage to liver cells - and perfusion-related reactions: from low blood pressure, through nausea and vomiting, to sweating and chills.
Question: On what evidence have they based their approval?
Response: Emergency route approval results from a federal clinical trial conducted by the U.S. National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (Niaid), which has not been reviewed by independent scientists or published in a scientific journal.
Although the results are promising, further testing is still lacking.
Gilead is developing two Phase 3 trials, the Simple Studies, in countries with high prevalence of Covid-19 (including Spain).
Besides, just four days ago, the magazine
published data from a randomized versus placebo trial conducted in hospitals in Wuhan, China, which treated 237 patients.
The efficacy of remdesivir was not demonstrated and although the data indicated that the duration of the disease was shortened, they were not statistically significant.
Gilead Pharmaceuticals announced on Wednesday that remdesivir treatment improves the clinical status of patients with severe forms of Covid-19.
It was given in almost 65% of the treatments that also did not have major side effects and gained a benefit within five days of receiving the drug.
On that line is a small preliminary study published on April 10 in
, in which the Hospital La Paz in Madrid participates, which concludes that about two-thirds of very serious patients improved upon receiving treatment through compassionate use.
Still, Gilead is cautious and insists that the efficacy of the drug is still being investigated.
Question: When could I reach Spain?
Answer: It is currently an emergency authorization (not definitively approved) for the United States only.
In order to arrive in Europe it must be approved by the European Medicines Agency (EMA) and, specifically in Spain, it depends on the Spanish Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products (AMPs), entity of the Ministry of Health.
This week, by contrast, it will already be available in the US for the most serious patients of Covid-19, as announced by the pharmaceutical this Sunday.