"Where I said I said...": Singapore will give access to COVID-19 data to its security forces for criminal investigations
Well, I expected it.
Some think it is a matter of dictatorships against citizens.
But no, it is a matter of governments versus citizens.
What we play here is not health, it is freedom.
And companies, which seem to be forgotten, companies too.
By and large, all the great crave power as much as the worst politician you can find.
Surprise, a dictatorship doing things like dictatorship while the West licks his ass
A dictatorship can do good things and a democracy can do bad things (invade countries, ruin them, provoke coups, practice imperialism).
You overvalue democracies.
If I could vote for the Chinese president or Trump, I think I would vote for the Chinese president.
I'm sure it's at least more cult.
Of course, of course, we all know that China respects human rights more than the US.
What to read...
What you've said is... the biggest nonsense I've read in these first five days of the year.
Your comment is the most ridiculous: multi-party countries only care to enrich the richest, while one-party Marxist countries help the poor and develop faster.
We'll win!
Reading your comments doesn't know if you're a low-quality troll or just stupid.
We will always have that doubt.
Defending a dictatorship... what to read.
What you have to read is your comment, they have a better system, you as you live in a world capitalism see everything super normal, but in the world millions of hungry people die by capitalism, in capitalism it is not profitable to feed hungry people, so you simply throw the food away, as you see in this video: youtu.be / aqhJ35O8DFI
They live in Marxist countries with Keynesian plans that care about the poor and are countries that develop very quickly.
They certainly have a better system (of repression and censorship) than the capitalists.
I remind you that Mao Zedong's Great Leap Forward killed between 15 and 55 million people from hunger.
PD: As a troll, do more to try to convince us of the advantages of a Marxist system that has suffered the same mistakes, and the same corruption, as other socio-economic systems situated in their antipodes.
You just fell into a fallacy as simple as common, not sequitur.
No one doubts that a democracy at times can commit "negative" acts, any human government will be as imperfect as we are.
What is valued is the global, and the global of a dictatorship always tends to be negative while that of democracy always tends to be positive.
Another issue is to go into assessing that there are not only dictatorships and democracies, the Western framework for qualifying governments, if not more types of government.
"democracy always tends to be positive," that rule breaks with Mexico, which has democracy, but we are getting worse.
It is no longer known whether living in Mexico is better than living in China, but it is true that we are earning money (and I am not saying this by AMLO or EPN, but by everyone, no president has done anything really for Mexico).
I am Mexican and I prefer our democracy, that the dictatorship disguised as the PRI era, where civil rights were not respected, and the civil problems of our democracy, are precisely because of the policies and laws that remain from that era.
Now that we 're not making economic progress, it' s not by a regime, but by a short-sighted view, for example, in Mexico, 0.9% of GDP is invested in R & D, and I assure you that so, we will never be an economic power or a small or medium power, much less a big one, and that, no political party has proposed it seriously, remembering that China or the US is investing around 2.5 and South Korea or Israel is investing more than 4%, we 're in mediocrity and rearguard, and so, until Fracking and getting that oil out, we' ll have to import that technology, but we vote for politicians who see back doing refinements when maybe that 's no longer necessary, and we' re not even guided by an idiot-type of society.
I don 't know any dictatorship that hasn' t done horrible things, and certainly in democracies some do, but I would recommend you talk to some Uyghurs, to see what they think about the Chinese regime.
Or the relatives of those executed by the Chinese regime, who were made to pay for the bullets of the executions.
The problem is that neither you nor 99.999% of Chinese can vote for their president (the CCP's elite chooses him, although Mr. Jinping is already looking for the legal means to allow him to remain in office indefinitely, removing the CCP's importance, which would bring him more power, and more centralization, than he already has).
Not all democracies are like the US (which, being one of them, is one of the worst-run).
Europeans, incidentally, enjoy a higher standard of living (for the general population) than the US, and that is without getting involved in so many wars (the few we get involved in are to win US favor, though, seeing the results, we should let them get involved alone in their wars around the world).
Your logic is rather short-sighted: democracy does not only serve to make national security decisions, and if it has been established in most of the world's countries and supranational institutions such as the UN, it is because it first helps to resolve political differences civilly.
That a dictatorship can make good economic or social decisions, because some monarchies have done so, too, and if we go further, some clan chiefs will have done quite well.
Now, if some peoples are tolerant of the loss of their civil rights, but for them as long as they endure, other peoples would not tolerate China's policies toward their people for a year.
I support you, it's better to have a single party that cares about the people and not multiple parties that are always stealing money.
Capitalist Western governments work for the rich, while those like China or Singapore care for the poor.
These countries tend to develop very quickly.
Long live Marxism, we will defeat capitalism in this century.
Marxist Singapore.
If it is one of the major financial hubs in the world, with hundreds of capitalist (private) companies located there.
PD: With this manifest lack of arguments, you will certainly not beat anyone (neither capitalism, nor the rich, nor the West).
And does your mind see that China or Singapore, as the main international trading partner, have capitalist countries, and that the main Russian energy customers are also capitalist countries?
That was precisely one of the causes of the collapse of the Soviet Union, the entire bloc collapsed because consumption of the bloc could not sustain its economy, and had to open up to the world or capitalist style, China was among the first to do so.
The only difference I see with the rest of the countries is that Singapore recognizes it.
The rest just do.
At least the app has helped them.
And if not, the one who is always critical of China now exculpates a dictatorship.
What a surprise.
They have money.
Many, and western friends, like Arabia.
And that's worth cleaning up your reputation like nothing else.
Since when is Singapore a dictatorship?
I would say it is a "dictablanda" (at least compared to the Chinese regime, which is a dictatorship, a dry one).
Economically, it is as open as the West, but socially and politically it is almost as closed as China (a single party, and a near-zero respect for press freedom).
What a surprise.
But the conspirators were the ones who didn't want to install it...
Heartfelt congratulations to all those who said that those who don't install covid radar apps are paranoid.
No, if paranoid's the least they've called us.
Even old-timers have come to call us.
What happens in Singapore has no reason to be extrapolable to other countries.
Neither Singapore has the same type of government nor apps are the same.
Nothing the Spanish government is superdependable, we live with a separation of powers and all are good people who look after us.
I don't care if they govern one another. They're all colleagues and they're clear about their role.
Well, yes, it is.
We don't seem to be talking about the same kind of app, the Singapore app has to request personal data from the user who installs it, so you're insinuating in the article "will never be accessed unless the user is a case of positive contagion," and that it already warned that such data could be used in certain situations.
In Spain RadarCovid does not request anything.
It doesn't matter, but so you already have a headline and comments to make the month out.
You have access to your smartphone, so your phone number and / or the terminal imei that can be associated with a phone number, and from your number they take out who you are.
Well, can you provide some proof that the phone number and imei is being provided?
That's what you just pulled from the manga, any proof to prove it?
The ones I had when I said that some government was going to end up misusing these kinds of apps, and look, I 've got that right.
Bad use maybe for you... If they use it for a criminal investigation I don't know what's wrong with.
When you sell it to Facebook, we talk.
Exactly, but those who criticize RadarCovid seem to ignore it very well.
As there have been no cases of programs skipping permissions control to access things that should not be accessed.
Then don't install anything on your phone because any application is either open source or will not be able to do so.
It's also not that you use phones like Librem 5, it's not that I'm cheating on you too.
Giving gas to the conspirators.
conspiratorial fuel that doesn 't connect two neurons...
I installed the COVID radar and two days later uninstall it because I was tired of the notifications, and the settings could not be changed.
Every time I put my phone in airplane mode at night, I jumped a loud application notification to "remind myself" that it wasn't active, annoying everyone... Fuck.
so imagine what you can do anywhere in the world with the user's location data (with or without him covid... what will matter) for absolutely everything.
The more you interact with the device, the more those responsible for the operating system of iphones, androids, etc., can help the forces of order.
ale, we already know who can be the world's two largest providers of 'help' to solve any kind of global problem.
Third-party service providers, of course.
to see the terminal by which point the operator was getting connection.
Total, is done automatically with all subscribers, 86400 times per day...
"those data" will never be accessed unless the user is a positive contagion case "" And if it 's not positive, it mysteriously turns him into positive, these are believed that the majority of the population is subnormal (well yes, but you can' t say discrimination and so on).
Well, I'm surprised and I don't like the news at all.
Though coming from that good country...