"The Lancet" retracts an influential study on the risks of hydroxychloroquine
The scientific journal The Lancet has retracted a scientific study warning of the risks of hydroxychloroquine, one of the drugs tested for the treatment of Covid-19, due to distrust of the data analysed.
The study, which analyzed data from 96,000 patients in more than 600 hospitals worldwide, drew attention to higher rates of mortality and cardiac risk for those treated with the drug, which has been used for decades against malaria and lupus.
These findings were instrumental in health policy changes in some Latin American countries on the treatment of Covid-19 and in the World Health Organization and several research centers around the world stopping clinical trials with hydroxychloroquine.
Last Tuesday, The Lancet issued a statement of "concern" about the veracity of the data, which yesterday ended with the retraction of the article.
At the heart of the problem is Surgisphere, a small, until recently unknown American company, that provided the data for the studies.
An investigation by 'The Guardian', published this Wednesday, found that Surgisphere has few employees and that some of those appearing as such have no scientific training.
At the front is Sapan Desai, a researcher who has been named in three lawsuits for scientific malpractice, and who appears as co-author in both the study of "The Lance" and another study of "The New England Journal of Medicine" on the drug.
The retracted authors claim to have warned of problems with the "veracity" of the data provided by Surgisphere and Desai, who did not transfer the data fully to independent reviewers of the study.
The British newspaper confirmed with several Australian hospitals, among which Sugsfield had collected data for his study, that they had not been in contact with the company or Desai..
The use of hydroxychloroquine has been one of the major controversies during the Covid-19 pandemic.
US President Donald Trump has defended the drug since March as one of the most promising to combat the disease, even though there is no clear evidence to support.
When limited studies of cardiac risk began to appear in patients using it, he stopped talking about it, although last month he acknowledged that he had taken it for a week and a half as a preventive measure against the rise in White House staff positives.
False and dangerous propaganda against Trump and they go and publish it.
The Lancet has lost all credibility.
Hydrochloroquine, Invermectin and MMS are not of interest to either Farmafia or WHO.
Without royalties there is no paradise.
And all because trump said it was worth a rotten world.
I am becoming increasingly clear that this has to work.
Considering that the results of the study have been "released" by a company with few employees without scientific training, which has not wanted to give the source data, supposedly from hospitals that claim they have not contacted them, if you believe this study is valid it must be because it has information that they do not have anyone.
Listen, listen...
TheLancet | DOBLAN antimalarials death risk "Covid19," + CTRIPLICAN macrolides mortality | Did we repeat influenza 1918 when influenza was killed with aspirin?
It's very cheap.
That's not interesting.
They treated 87% of those entering Spain with hydroxychloroquine
More than half of coronavirus admissions are hypertensive
Some side effects of hydroxychloroquine:
Heart muscle weakness (cardiomyopathy) resulting in difficulty breathing, cough, high blood pressure, swelling, increased heart rate, low,,,,,,,,,,,.,,,,,
Cardiac muscle disease (cardiomyopathy) that can be fatal at high doses in the long term (see section 2, "Warnings and precautions")
Here many more HYDROXYCLOQUIN RATIOPHARM 200 MG RECOVERED COMPRIMS WITH EFG PEACLE
Do you know if they're using it in Italy?
Has the virus or the drug killed more?