WHO suspends trials of hydroxychloroquine in coronavirus patients
The study found no evidence that the use of hydroxychloroquine, with or without azithromycin, would provide any benefit in the treatment of patients hospitalized with Covid-19.
The world is still waiting for an effective drug to treat COVID-19, the disease caused by the new SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus, and among the most considered options was hydroxychloroquine, a very effective drug commonly prescribed for malaria.
The World Health Organization (WHO) reported on Monday that it suspended trials testing of hydroxychloroquine in patients with COVID-19 following reports questioning their safety.
Studies suggest that hydroxychloroquine is not safe in coronavirus patients
Last week we reviewed a study published in The Lancet that revealed that the administration of hydroxychloroquine or derivatives like chloroquine, with or without the antibiotic azithromycin in patients with COVID-19, had caused more deaths than had applied any of these treatments.
The report also revealed an association between this drug and the development of heart problems.
Although this was not the first time that scientists doubted the safety of the drug for this particular condition.
During the month of April this year, a Brazilian study was also cancelled because cardiac anomalies had been recorded in the participants who received it as treatment against the new infection.
The new study was published following controversial statements by US President Donald Trump that he was taking the antimalarial drug he also promoted in early April.
Can trials with hydroxychloroquine be resumed?
Now a new Bloomberg report reports that a WHO committee has decided to temporarily suspend "Solidarity" studies, which tested hydroxychloroquine as a potential treatment in patients with COVID-19.
The United Nations agency noted that existing evidence will be reviewed to make a decision on whether or not to resume trials, which will be known within a week or two.
"It is important to continue gathering evidence on the efficacy and safety of hydroxychloroquine," said Soumya Swaminathan, WHO lead scientist, at a press conference in Geneva.
We want to use it if it's safe and effective, reduce mortality, reduce the duration of hospitalization without increasing adverse events.
For the time being, they are looking for a good analysis of the data collected so far.
Mike Ryan, head of the WHO health emergency program, said during an information session that the decision was made "with great caution" and that studies could be resumed if the data justified it.
Reference:
https: / / www.bloomberg.com / news / articles / 2020-05-25 / who-s-hydroxychloroquine-trial-suspended-pending-safety-data