The drug that cures leprosy shows promising evidence against covid
A woman with advanced leprosy, at a medical center in Yawlang, Afghanistan, in 2010.
Paula Bronstein / THE
In 1966, a 34-year-old man arrived at the gates of a hospital in Cebu, Philippines.
His limbs were so inflamed that he could not even feel them, and he suffered from leonina's face, a grotesque swelling of his face.
The doctors decided to test with him an experimental drug which had been discovered in 1954 and which had given some positive results in Africa.
The effect was "dramatic."
That patient regained his face and the swelling disappeared completely.
Thirty years later, he had no trace of his illness, according to his doctors.
The drug that had saved his life was called clofazimine.
Since then, the drug has saved millions of lives, and the World Health Organization still considers it an essential medicine against leprosy.
More than half a century later, the world is besieged by the new coronavirus pandemic, against which there are few effective treatments.
Dexamethasone, a corticoid that modulates the immune response, reduces the mortality of serious patients by 17%.
If given with tocilizumab, the antibody designed to treat arthritis, one in two lives can be saved from the most serious patients.
There is a third drug, the antiviral remdesivir, which accelerates the recovery time of some hospitalized patients.
But doctors long for effective treatment that can be administered not by intravenous route, which requires hospitalization, but by oral route, which would make it easier for people to take it at home and avoid serious cases of gout without hospital admission.
A few months ago, doctors and virologists from the United States and Hong Kong launched a search for more than 12,000 drugs already approved for other diseases in an attempt to find something that works against gout.
And they ran into clofazimine.
This drug has a "powerful" effect on the covid virus, according to a team of doctors in a study recently published in the prestigious magazine
Natura
So far, they 're just results from laboratory experiments with human cells and hamsters infected with the new coronavirus, but they' re so interesting that the researchers want to start testing this molecule in infected people as soon as possible.
"Clofazimine is an ideal candidate for treating gout," Sumit Chanda, immunologist at the Sanford Burnham Prebys Medical Research Institute (USA), summarizes.
"It is a safe, affordable, easy to manufacture drug, can be taken orally and could be distributed globally," says the agency's researcher focused on the search for drugs for infectious and chronic diseases.
The results of the work show that this drug reduces the amount of virus in the lungs of infected animals.
It also protects against infection and prevents lung injuries similar to those suffered by people with severe gout, caused by an unbroken inflammatory response of the immune system.
The immunologist Sumit Chanda, co-author of the study.
"We hope to be able to test this drug in a Phase 2 trial for people who have been infected with SARS-CoV-2 but have not yet been hospitalized," Chanda explains in a press release.
The study has also proven that clofazimine can be administered alongside remdesivir, which would increase the healing potential.
Clofazimine was described in 1954 by the team of Irish microbiologist Vicent Barry.
It was a disappointment, as it did not work as expected: curing tuberculosis, caused by a bacterium.
In the 1960s, it began to be tested for its effectiveness against another bacterial disease, leprosy, and it worked very well.
Its use became widespread when the pathogen became resistant to first-line treatment.
Sixty years later, no cases of clofazimine-resistant leprosy are known.
In 1980, Barry's team received the UNESCO Science Award for their work - he had died five years earlier.
The daily dose of this drug is approximately one and a half euros.
The drug has both antibiotic and anti-inflammatory properties, which are interesting in the case of covid.
The study shows that this drug combats the virus in two different ways.
It first blocks its entry into cells.
And if the virus has already entered, the drug blocks the virus's reproduction process and prevents it from making copies of itself.
Part of the Hong Kong team of doctors signing this study has launched a clinical trial with hospitalized cavid patients.
In this case, they are testing the efficacy of clofazimine in combination with interferon beta-1-b, a drug for multiple sclerosis that appears to have an antiviral effect against SARS-CoV-2.
"This drug has been used against leprosy because in this disease, in addition to infection by a bacterium, an inflammatory component is produced which ends up causing the deformities of the face and limbs that we know," explains Jesús Sierra, coordinator of the register of the Spanish Society of Hospital Pharmacy (SEFH).
It is possible that this anti-inflammatory property is also playing a role in animals infected with coronavirus that have taken the drug and do not develop serious disease.
"These are interesting results," says Marcos López, president of the Spanish Society of Immunology.
"It may have a future," he adds.
The work also shows that clofazimine also effectively blocks MERS, another coronavirus that emerged in 2012 that has been detected in 21 countries and has killed 939 people, according to the European Centre for Disease Control.
The drug also stops three other coronaviruses that produce catarrh.
"This drug seems to be effective against many coronaviruses, indicating that it could be a good weapon also with future pandemics," explains Kwok-Yung Yuen, professor of infectious diseases at the University of Hong Kong and co-author of the study.
In 2003, Yuen was one of the microbiologists who identified the SARS virus, another coronavirus that caused nearly 800 deaths.
"Our study leads us to think that we should consider the possibility of creating reserves of this drug for rapid use if a worrying new coronavirus emerges," Yuen adds.
The World Health Organization (WHO) controls almost 100% of the drug's distribution - donated by the patent-owned pharmaceutical company Novartis - as it forms part of the cocktail that is given to leprosy patients.
About 600,000 cases are reported each year, mostly in Brazil, Madagascar, India, Mozambique and Nepal.
The United Nations Health Organization believes that this cocktail makes it possible to eradicate leprosy worldwide.
The distribution of clofazimine for other uses may jeopardize that goal, alert.