COVID-19 is becoming less deadly over time?
They say that in each case it's different, I contracted the virus in late May.
At first I thought it was just a common flu, fatigue, general malaise, very little fever and under 38 degrees, I lost my sense of smell and taste completely and did not require any treatment.
Just like many people thought it was nothing of the other world until my father marked me and told me that he felt very similar symptoms, we suggested that he go to the hospital because he had a week to do that.
Unfortunately, I had to see the chronic part of this disease, for him the whole week got worse, his oxygen saturation was down to 10 percent.
No, and I wasn't expected to.
Obviously, there is always a risk, however small, when you inject a substance into people's bloodstream.
And if you 're going to give something to hundreds of millions of people, then, of course, you should do the security tests.
But scientists would have been amazed if there had been safety problems.
This vaccine is very similar to other vaccines that have passed tests that did not cause any problems.
One of the other answers started with "Not that we were told."
A high temperature that characterizes countries with few cases and high temperatures http: / / matatn.al virus in the environment, outside a favorable culture
The other, the highest defenses of these populations, more antibodies, I give an example, in the city where I live, in Puerto la Cruz, Venezuela there are a couple of caves called the caves of Rolando, where as a child we went on excursions with some frequency.
As an adult, Canadian tourists began to be brought in to visit these caves and were suddenly suspended because all Canadian tourists prayed
1- All that can be infected are infected (see Black Death in medieval Europe, Smallpox in the Age of Exploration of America, Spanish Influenza in 1918-1920)
2- Government action finds all those who are ill, quarantine them and prevents further spread (see Wuhan China, 2020, SARS in China in 2002, Ebola in West Africa, 2018)
3- Transmission slows down in hot / dry climates (see influenza, every year)
We still don't know if Covid-19 will slow down when the Northern Hemisphere becomes prime.
Let's split up.
It appears that, according to all indications, this virus comes from one of Wuhan's laboratories.
I say labs, because it looks like there are three.
One level 3 and one level 4, both located about 20 km from the centre of Wuhan and another, a disease control centre, located only 200 m from the famous animal market.
It is not known how he was born or how he escaped.
However, it seems that the disease did not start when the Chinese authorities say, but several months earlier.
On the contrary, the Chinese government, instead of warning within 24 hours,