Conspiracy theories and viral cells around covid-19
They will analyze the covid-19 cells broadcast by Whatsapp.
Crises are exceptional occasions for transmitting false and, above all, interested messages.
So it is no surprise that the heat of the coronavirus has been damaged by social media, e-mails, and messaging applications of all kinds of viral cells and conspiracy theories with the aim of catching the most gullible.
RELEVANT NEWS
One of the most widely preached Whatsapp stories argues that the origin of the pandemic is not a virus, but "a bacterium amplified by 5G electromagnetic radiation."
It is not the only claim that the World Health Organization (WHO), which at no time has banned autopsies, as suggested in some chain-linked messages, nor has recommended the intake of aspirin and paracetamol to avoid the alleged thrombosis that the virus would cause.
Another chain message is put on the apron and advocates a traditional Chinese remedy that passes by boiling eight garlic heads in seven cups of water and taking such an appetizing infusion.
Garments with warm water, salt and vinegar are another of the suggestions that have been shared.
Pseudoterapias have found in covid-19 an anchor to cling to for promotion and projection.
One of the most publicized magical products in recent weeks has been sodium chlorite (or MMS), which would eradicate the virus from the infected person's body in just 24 hours.
Anti-cancer movements have also seized the opportunity to blame laboratories and health ministries, which are paradoxically also accused, from other forums, of hiding the cure of the disease.
One of Whatsapp's most shared networks claims that hospitals in Milan and Bergamo had already worked out a solution, but that it would have been decided not to share it.
In another message sent by hundreds of people, it is said that some cacos called the door saying that they were workers of Zaragoza City Council and that they were delivering toxic-impregnated masks.
It was a lie more than a list that seems to have no end.