Estimated 57% reduction in Covid-19 mortality from antibody-rich plasma in convalescent people
An analysis of a large team of researchers from American universities, 21 in total, has concluded that it is possible to reduce mortality by 57% in Covid-19 through convalescent plasma of patients recovered from the disease.
With the continuing COVID-19 pandemic, scientists are still looking for an effective treatment or vaccine.
Now, a new study published in medRxiv * in July 2020 reports that an old treatment modality, the use of plasma rich in convalescent antibodies, reduces the mortality rate in patients hospitalized with COVID-19 by a surprising 57%.
This adds evidence for the use of convalescent plasma in the treatment of high-risk patients.
More than a hundred years have passed since the convalescent plasma was first used as a source of passive immunity.
Antibodies produced against a specific pathogen are of great use in the treatment of outbreaks caused by this pathogen.
Despite the lack of clinical evidence for its efficacy in COVID-19 disease, there are multiple randomized controlled trials (RCTs), case studies and controls, and a series of cases dealing with its use in this situation.
Most are too small to provide adequate evidence or were not executed to the end.
In the absence of large-scale randomized controlled trials, there is no support for their effectiveness, making doctors disagree on whether it should be used routinely in hospitalized patients.
Meta-analysis of previous studies
The researchers pooled data from different types of trials, whether RCTs, case studies and controls or case series, to obtain an aggregate estimate of the calculated overall mortality rate.
They included 804 patients in total, aged 48 to 70, with a higher proportion of men in most studies.
Most patients included had severe or critical COVID-19 disease and had received plasma transfusions.
At the time of transfusion, up to 80% of patients had received mechanical ventilation.
Patients were followed for 7 to 30 days.
The Great Mortality Drop
The researchers found that mortality rates were comparatively low, in all four series of cases, from none to 13%.
Among RCTs as well, rates were 13% lower among transfused patients compared to 26% among non-transfused patients.
The difference was obvious in case studies and controls, at 12%, only half of the 25% recorded in non-transfused controls.
Thus, the odds of death were reduced by approximately 54% and 60%, respectively, in patients receiving convalescent plasma, in RCTs and case studies and controls, respectively.
The researchers adjusted for age, mechanical ventilation, and even for different follow-up periods, and found no significant differences in mortality reduction.
The researchers concluded that their analysis of the results of patients receiving convalescent plasma showed a marked reduction in mortality in this group compared to similar patients who did not.
They say: "These results favor the efficacy of the convalescent plasma as the therapeutic agent COVID-19."
Explaining the benefit of convalescent plasma
The most plausible explanation for the effectiveness of this therapy is that the plasma contains neutralizing antibodies that prevent the virus from entering host cells.
Other biological mechanisms can also operate.
These results, they note, "align with similar analyses of historical data from convalescent plasma trials for viral diseases such as the 1918 flu epidemic, severe acute respiratory syndrome and H1N1 influenza."
The meta-analysis is limited by the inclusion of many studies with wide variation in the country of origin, the time context of the study relative to the overall course of the pandemic, the diagnostic and therapeutic standards in each patient cohort and the antibody-titre in the convalescent plasma used, as well as the transfused plasma volume.
However, the fact is that treatment appears to offer encouraging results in a solid manner, regardless of the country of study, and is not associated with significant side effects.
Promoting early results
Once again, many of these patients were transfused as a last resort measure, late in the course of the disease.
However, history shows that in many infections, such as streptococcal pneumonia and bacterial meningitis, during the pre-antibiotic era, the optimal time for the administration of convalescent plasma was very early in the course of the hospitalized disease.
If so, an earlier moment of convalescent plasma transfusion might well have further reduced COVID-19 mortality.
The researchers therefore summarize: "The results encourage their continued use as therapy and may have broad implications for COVID-19 treatment and ECA design."
doi: https: / / doi.org / 10.1101 / 2020.07.29.20162917.
https: / / www.medrxiv.org / content / 10.1101 / 2020.07.29.20162917v1