FDA warns that hydroxychloroquine is neither safe nor effective for COVID-19
Mohammed Mostajo, Ambassador of Science and Technology with the shipment of hydroxychloroquine.
The United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has warned of the risks of using hydroxychloroquine, a drug authorized by the Bolivian government.
According to this regulatory institution, the drug has not been shown to be safe or effective for treatment of coronavirus infection.
On Friday, the FDA issued a safety announcement specifically regarding hydroxychloroquine.
It indicates that it should not be used by anyone outside the hospital or a clinical trial, and that risks to patients' heart rate have been identified.
Hydrochloroquine and chloroquine can cause abnormal heart rhythms, such as QT prolongation and dangerously fast heart rate, called ventricular tachycardia.
These risks may increase when these drugs are combined with other drugs, including the antibiotic azithromycin, which is also used in some COVID-19 patients without FDA approval for this condition, "the alert notes.
The agency said it will continue to investigate the risks associated with the use of hydroxychloroquine for the treatment of the new coronavirus and, when more information is available, will make it known to the public.
In March, US President Donald Trump said that chloroquine treatment is a significant advance and pushed the FDA to make the treatment available "immediately."
Previously, a French study reported positive results.
The drug is an immunomodulator used against malaria, malaria and severe arthritis.
On April 12, 200 kilograms of hydroxychloroquine arrived in Bolivia, enough to produce a million doses, which in turn amount to 40,000 treatments.
IFA laboratories carried out the purchase and import management, while the National Customs carried out the "customs clearance" with tariff 0, by the emergency health decrees.
Mohammed Mostajo, the extraordinary ambassador in Science and Technology, said at the time that imported material is "much more than would be needed, assuming the worst scenarios of the disease"