There are people who have some immunity to covid-19 without having had coronavirus.
What for?
1: 20.
(CNN) -- The immune system of some people who have not been exposed to coronavirus may have some familiarity with the pathogen, possibly helping to reduce the severity of the disease if that individual becomes infected with covid-19, suggests a recent study.
The study, published in the magazine
Wednesday, he discovered that in a sample of 68 healthy adults in Germany who were not exposed to covid-19, 35% had T cells in their blood that were reactive to the virus.
LEE: Immunity against coronavirus seems to decrease after three months, according to a British study
T cells are part of the immune system and help protect the body from infection.
The reactivity of T cells suggests that the immune system may have had some prior experience in fighting a similar infection and may use that memory to help combat a new infection.
So how can there be reactive T cells in your immune systems without ever having covid-19?
These were "probably acquired in previous infections with endemic coronaviruses," researchers from several institutions in Germany and the UK explained in the new study.
Activating this memory of T cells corresponding to another similar infection to respond to a new infection is called "cross-reactivity."
The big question is... what could be the role of those T cells?
The new research included the analysis of blood samples from 18 patients of covid-19, aged 21-81, and healthy donors, aged 20-64, living in Germany.
The study found that coronavirus-reactive T cells were detected in 83% of patients with covid-19.
Although researchers found pre-existing cross-reactivity T cells in healthy donors, the report clarifies that the impact that these cells could have on the outcome of a covid-19 disease is still unknown.
The findings of the study certainly require more research, said Dr. Amesh Adalja, Principal Investigator of the Johns Hopkins University Center for Health Security, who did not participate in the new study.
In this study it appears that there is a significant proportion of individuals who have this cross-reaction T cell immunity from other coronavirus infections, which may have some impact on how they face the new coronavirus.
I think the big question is trying to jump from the fact that they have these T cells to understand what the role of these T cells might be, "Adalja analyzed.
"We know, for example, that children and younger adults are relatively safe from the serious consequences of this disease, and I think one hypothesis might be that pre-existing T cells that exist may be much more numerous or more active in younger age cohorts than in older cohorts," the doctor completed.
And if you could compare people with severe and mild diseases, and try to look at the T cells in them and ask yourself, 'Is it less likely that people with severe disease have cross-reactivity T cells and that, in comparison, people with mild disease can have more cross-reactivity T cells?
I think there's a biological possibility in that hypothesis, "he added.
However, it is clear that the presence of T cells does not prevent people from becoming infected, but then does it moderate the severity of the infection?
That seems to be the case. "
So far in the coronavirus pandemic, much attention has been paid to covid-19 antibodies and their role in building immunity to the disease.
But infectious disease expert Dr. William Schaffner, professor of preventive medicine and infectious diseases at Vanderbilt University Medical School in Nashville, who did not participate in the new study, said that T cells cannot be overlooked.
Here is a study that suggests that there may actually be some cross-reactivity -- some bomb preparation if you like -- due to conventional coronaviruses that cause colds in humans, and there may be some cross-reactivity with the covid-19 virus that is causing so much damage.
That's something in itself intriguing because we had thought from the perspective of antibodies that there wasn't much crossover at all, "Schaffner explained.
It's not entirely surprising because they're all members of the same family.
It's like they're cousins, "he said.
Now we have to see if there is any impact of this on clinical practice... Does this make it more or less likely that the person infected with covid-19 actually develops a disease?
Does it have any implications for vaccine development?
he added.
Almost everyone in the world has had some encounter with a coronavirus.
Adalja commented that he was not surprised to see this cross-reactivity of T cells in the study participants who were not exposed to the new coronavirus, called SARS-CoV-2.
SARS-CoV-2 is the seventh human coronavirus to be discovered, and four of the human coronaviruses are what we call coronaviruses acquired in the community.
Those four are responsible for 25% of our common colds, "Adalja explained.
Almost every person in the world has had some encounter with a coronavirus, and since they are all part of the same family, some cross-reaction immunity develops.
The new study published in
Natura
is not the only one that suggests a certain pre-existing level of immunity to the new coronavirus in some people.
Alessandro Sette and Shane Crotty, both from the University of California, San Diego, wrote in a commentary, published in the magazine.
Natura
earlier this month, that "20-50% of unexposed donors show significant reactivity to the SARS-CoV-2 antigen," based on separate research, but highlighted that the source and clinical relevance of the reactivity remains unknown.
Sette and Crotty noted that "it has now been established that pre-existing immune reactivity to SARS-CoV-2 exists to some extent in the general population.
It is presumed, but not yet proven, that this may be due to immunity to common cold coronaviruses. "