Farm insects cannot transmit COVID-19
Research conducted by the Dutch university Wageningen concludes that these cannot transmit the virus responsible for COVID-19
Major barriers to disease spread
Eating insects is a common practice in a third of the world's population that is spreading in Western countries.
As many people might think, in terms of food security, these represent a safer alternative to other more conventional foods.
Within the European Union, like any other food ingredient, manufacturers of products including insects must comply with all regulations set by the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA).
Furthermore, as a positive point, the fact that insects are so different from humans from an evolutionary point of view makes the spread of diseases more difficult.
This is mainly because, in general, those pathogens that affect humans (many of which can survive in other animals) cannot do so in insects, making them act as a barrier to their propagation.
Insects and propagation of COVID-19
The study has analyzed propagation possibilities in those species most widely used in food: black soldier fly, house fly, cricket and blackbird.
Are these insects the hosts of the virus?
In the case of COVID-19 disease, it is produced by the SARS-CoV-2 virus.
In order to be housed in an organism, it must have ACE2 receptors in its cells that allow the virus to adhere to the cell.
In the case of the insects studied, their ACE proteins do not allow the virus to adhere to their cells and therefore cannot act as hosts.
Can insects carry the virus?
By not allowing the virus to live in insect cells, their ability to carry the virus decreases considerably, as the virus can only survive in them for a limited period of time and cannot reproduce.
Automation and strict hygiene measures to prevent propagation
Insect breeding is carried out in indoor facilities under very strict hygiene conditions.
This limits the presence of microorganisms and other pathogens.
In addition, the breeding process is in many cases highly automated, so that contact with humans is limited and the risk of passive transmission of the virus is reduced.
Conclusion
Despite taboos and cultural rejection of the use of insects in food, this is a very good alternative to traditional protein consumption not only in organoleptic, environmental and economic terms, but also in terms of food security.
Insects, by their very nature and the way they are raised, reduce the risk of disease transmission from farm animals to humans.
Source: Wageningen University