"Use of ivermectin, safe for covid patients": IMSS
NACION
The Director-General of IMSS defended the use of ivermectin and noted the scientific evidence supporting it
Zoé Robledo Aburto said there are 23 studies showing that ivermectin is safe for patients.
The Mexican Institute of Social Security defended the use of ivermectin for the treatment of covid patients, noting that there is scientific evidence supporting it and that even its director-general, Zoé Robledo, used it when he was ill with coronavirus to prevent his condition from worsening.
At Wednesday's conference, Robledo Aburto was questioned about the recent positioning made by a panel of experts from the National Institutes of Health and High-Speciality Hospitals, who did not recommend the use of ivermectin in patients with Sars-CoV2.,,.,,,,,,,
In this regard, Robledo Aburto said that it is a recommendation made by the panel experts, not the Health Secretariat, and that there are 23 studies showing that ivermectin is safe for patients.
"ivermectin is a noble drug, it is a safe drug, there are more than 23 in vitro studies that have demonstrated the positive effects it has on Sars-CoV2.
That is also important to clarify, it is for certain types of patients with mild symptoms, I share it, its server, is a medicine that was prescribed to me by IMSS doctors is a medicine that I took to prevent my mild symptoms from developing into severe or severe symptoms, but beyond that it was analyzed by IMSS experts, because this is done in all cases before prescribing a medicine, "noted.
Robledo Aburto also recalled that on January 17, the United States National Institutes of Health changed their stance, which was originally the same as that of the institutes in Mexico, and now declared a no-ban on the use of this drug.
"The Institute's position is based on scientific evidence," said Luis Durán, Planning and Health Coordinator of the Directorate of Medical Benefits of the IMSS, who explained that in order to make a decision on the treatment given to covid patients, it is consulted and approved on the basis of panels of experts.
"In the particular case of ivermectin, this is a safe drug, of the safest in the world, is very noble and has had such important effects that its creator won the Nobel Prize for the use of ivermectin," he emphasized.
Durán indicated that more than 3.7 billion doses of ivermectin have been given worldwide and no side effects have been reported.
He reiterated what Robledo Aburto said, explaining that so far there are 23 studies that have shown the usefulness of this drug in the last four months, not only as an early treatment to prevent patients from progressing covid, but also as a prophylactic drug.
He stressed that the Social Security policy for the use of ivermectin has been based on scientific analysis, with systematic review of the literature and the participation of panels of experts in scientific and ethical matters.