A priest of the church of St.
Raphael focused his speech on conspiracy theories about Covid-19.
Father Robert Altier's 20-minute homily during a recent Sunday religious service in the Twin Cities focused entirely on sharing COVID-19 conspiracy theories, including claims that the virus is artificial, published Bring Me The News.
Altier, a priest of the Church of St.
Raphael, located at 7301 Bass Lake Road in Crystal, began his homily by saying "I have an obligation to be here and tell the truth, even when people don't like to hear it.
So here we go... "began the speech.
We've been lied to.
We have been lied to in a huge way.
So let's get to the facts, "Altier said, and then told the congregation, without evidence, that the coronavirus, which he admitted is a real virus, is an" artificial virus "that was created in a North Carolina lab before it was" sent to China to finish the job and released to make people sick. "
An extensive study of bat coronaviruses has confirmed that these viruses exist in nature and some of them can be transmissible from animals to humans.
This strain of coronavirus originated in 2002 with different forms of evolution over the last two decades, eventually leading to a pandemic of the new coronavirus known as SARS-CoV-2.
According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), SARS-CoV-2 is believed to have originated in a humid market in China, possibly from a bat species.
The notion that the virus is "man-made" has been a popular conspiracy theory since the beginning of the pandemic, but has been rejected by experts such as Dr. Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergies and Infectious Diseases, and the University of Minnesota Center.
for Infectious Diseases, who said there is "exactly zero" evidence that the virus was created in a laboratory.
In response to the homily of Altier, the Archdiocese of St.
Paul and Minneapolis say he has "been in contact" with Altier after his homily.
The Archdiocese of Saint Paul and Minneapolis is aware of Father Altier's homily last Sunday and has contacted him.
With the help of experts in this area, the matter remains under review.
Based on our belief in the dignity of All Human Life, the Archdiocese of Saint Paul and Minneapolis is committed to the safety and well-being of all people and has consistently collaborated with public health officials and government officials in developing safety protocols for our parishes and schools.
Join us in prayer for all those who are ill with COVID-19, those who care for them, and for the people and families affected in some way by the pandemic.
Let all that we do reflect the compassionate face of Christ the healer among us. "