Biden, the media, and the medical community should apologize, says the defamed doctor for supporting the use of hydroxychloroquine
Dr. Stella Immanuel apologizing for defaming her person and the use of hydroxychloroquina- Video capture / Twitter- @ Stella _ Immanuel
 Avoid censorship follow us on Rumble and Telegram.
Writing BL- Stella Immanuel, who received criticism from the media as well as from various leading medical doctors after supporting the effectiveness of hydroxychloroquine treatment against the CCP virus, also known as Covid-19, through a viral video, now demands an apology in the light of studies that endorse the drug.
Immanuel said via Twitter: "I demand an apology.
When we said hydroxychloroquine works, we were ridiculed.
What about the hundreds of thousands who have died and are still dying?
pic.twitter.com / uAWmHx5dXl - Stella Immanuel MD (@stella _ immaneel) February 8, 2021
Bill and Hillary getting nervous?
The case of fraud against the Clinton Foundation has become very.....
Last year, the doctor reported that Americans were being denied a possible cure for Covid-19 after entities such as the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the White House's leading epidemiologist, Anthony Fauci, distorted the effectiveness of hydroxychloroquine.
Nobody has to get sick.
This virus has a cure, it's called hydroxychloroquine, I've treated over 350 patients and I haven't had a death, "he said with several members of the American Front Line Doctors.
Moreover, I have subjected myself, my staff and many doctors I know, to hydroxychloroquine for prevention, because by the mechanism of action itself, it works early and as a prophylactic.
We see patients, 10 to 15 patients of COVID every day.
We give them respiratory treatments, we just wear a surgical mask.
None of us are sick.
It works, "he added at the time.
The doctor from Calabar University in Nigeria demanded an apology from media outlets such as CNN, CNBC and the New York Times, after censoring the information she offered about the drug during a medical summit in Washington D.C. and calling her "Hollywood crazy."
"[I apologize] to all those people who sat around making videos calling me crazy when I said that hydroxychloroquine works and that we shouldn't let people die," the doctor said.
I mean the FDA, the CDC, the NIH, I mean all of you.
My colleagues, those who insulted me, those who threatened to report me to the board and all that, because I said the hydroxychloroquine works, "he added.
Now you have all these studies that say it works.
What about the more than 500,000 people who have died?
Who will be responsible for them?
, "noted Immanuel, who later added:" Someone needs their ass to be sued so badly that they can't find a way out of where they're locked................
The doctor also referred to current President Joe Biden: "Even Joe Biden called me crazy," he said.
I demand an apology from all of you and each of.
Recently, the prestigious medical journal The Lancet apologized for an issue issued last year in which they backed a study that claimed that hydroxychloroquine was ineffective as a drug to treat Covid-19.
According to National File, the medical journal's decision was that the Surgisphere Corporation, the company that provided the data, refused to provide full access to the information on which its study was based.
They argued that the Surgisphere Corporation's decision was based on the apparent violation of customer agreements and confidentiality requirements, raising doubts about the study.
Based on this development, we can no longer guarantee the accuracy of the primary data sources.
Because of this unfortunate development, the authors request that the article be withdrawn, "The Lancet noted in a statement.
According to a new study published by Hackensack Meridian Health, a network of health care providers in New Jersey, a group of people with mild symptoms of Covid-19 can benefit from Hydrochloroquine treatment.
Maura-BLes.com