Masks don't kill people or plug the "natural ventilation system"
"URGENT NOT USING MASCARILLS ARE STARTING TO THE LENTAMENT GENTLEMEN, UNDER THE NATURAL VENTILATION SYSTEM OF HUMAN LIFE," says a Facebook post last June 13 and shared by more than 20,500 users.
However, health authorities have recommended that they be used to prevent COVID-19 infection and experts consulted by the AFP have explained that they are not harmful to the human body...........
continues the Facebook post that includes an image of the human body and a car in which someone covers the exhaust pipe with a fruit.
The World Health Organization (WHO) explains in this guide that use of
"is part of a comprehensive set of prevention and control measures that can limit the spread of certain respiratory diseases caused by viruses, in particular COVID-19.
They also serve to protect healthy people or to control sources. "
In the same document, the WHO indicates the possible risks of using masks, mentioning the false sense of security. "
irritant dermatitis or worsening of acne
, "possible headaches, among others.
However, it does not mention that they type the ".........................
natural ventilation system
Nor that they slowly kill users.
In addition, the Peruvian Ministry of Health recommends that infected people wear masks.
This study, published by The Lancet on June 1, concluded that the use of masks and other personal protective items significantly reduces the risk of COVID-19 infection.
However, the masks have been the target of numerous social media publications, where users have claimed they are harmful, causing hypoxia, increasing the concentration of carbon dioxide in the blood, among other misinformation already verified by AFP Factual.
With the Masquerades...................
breathing is free
, "said Emilio Herrera, doctor and professor of the physiology program of the University of Chile, in this note.
He explained that surgical masks and other certified masks do not lead to respiratory problems:
Only if it's difficult
[breathing]
when you increase the dead space, which is a space that does not exchange.
That would happen by putting a tube or a hose. "
In addition, in this AFP publication, Herrera mentioned that masks do not cause a lack of oxygen (known as hypoxia):
For that, it would have to be a mask sealed all over our skin.
What limits masquerades are the passage of larger molecules. "
For his part, Colombian National Health Institute epidemiologist Carlos Pinto added that surgical masks are porous enough
"as to allow the passage of gas molecules, such as CO2 and oxygen, and do not significantly harm the exchange of gases to the point of causing health problems." (Press release)
The user who posted the viral image added that
"THE FREEDOM OF LIGHT IS SET FORTH IN HUMAN RIGHTS"
However, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights does not refer to this in any of its articles.
The viral publication also shows two images.
On the one hand, an illustration of the human body can be found on Google Images writing
'parts of the respiratory system'
(1.2).
The second, according to a reverse search, corresponds to a scene from the film.
Superdetective in Hollywood.
In conclusion, it is false that masquerades are harmful to health and can kill the people who use them.
Health authorities and experts recommend using them to prevent the spread of COVID-19.
EDIT: Add details on the WHO document and mention of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.