This medicine, [ivermectin], has no side effects, it will not harm you.
Updated 14 December 2020.
A video circulating via Facebook presents a person who recommends taking doses of ivermectin to combat the effects of Covid-19, even though that antiparasitic drug has been the subject of much recent controversy.
The message states explicitly: "This medicine, [ivermectin], has no side effects, it will not harm you."
After reviewing scientific reports and consulting with doctors specializing in the treatment of infectious diseases, OjoPúblico concludes that this claim is false.
The statements of the character identified as Víctor Moncada, who says on his Facebook profile that he is a police cash, and in 2019 was announced as deputy security manager of the District Municipality of Huaura, appear in the following transcript:
"Suddenly it's going to be something unbelievable, comrades, but do you know where I went to get this medicine?
To the vet; because this medicine, colleagues, is saving a lot of people....
And what 's strange to me, and sad to me, is why this government doesn' t make a health policy and tells everyone that we use ivermectin.
There are doctors who are recommending it, even as a protector, like a vest that you take and will protect you from this disease...
I 'm going to thank you, friends, colleagues, please share this video, to reach more people.
This is going to save lives, it saved me, I've helped a lot of people.
And I don 't want recognition, but I want my testimony to help more people, and you can believe me.
This medicine has no side effects, it won't hurt you, it doesn't taste bad. "
In principle, let us remember that ivermectin is an antiparasitic drug that is indicated, with different components, for animals and humans.
The latter group usually consume it orally in order to treat diseases such as strongyloidosis - an infection caused by a parasite that penetrates the skin - and onchocercosis, which causes blindness.
It is commonly used to combat scabies, lice and malaria.
However, in a recent scientific paper published in the viral disease research journal 'Antiviral Research', a group of doctors conducted an in vitro study in which they applied doses of ivermectin to laboratory cells and found that the drug reduced the replication of the virus SARS-CoV-2 causing Covid-19 disease.
This is the main report that mentions the character subject of this verification.
However, in the three pages of the investigation, no mention is made of the adverse effects ivermectin could cause in people affected by Covid-19.
For this verification, the infectologist Juan Celis, head of the Department of Infectious Diseases Medicine of the Regional Hospital of Loreto, explained to OjoPúblico that ivermectin doses should be prescribed by a physician since the application of excessive doses generates adverse effects.
When you pass the doses, not all patients pass it as normal.
I have patients who have come with extreme weakness, with neuropsychiatric disorders, [that's what] ivermectin can produce. "
On May 21, the Health Insurance Safety and Pharmacovigilance Report 'Safety Considerations in the Use of ivermectin in Patients with Covid-19' reported the adverse effects of ivermectin based on its factsheet and data from the Upssala Monitoring Centre (UMC), an entity that "operates the technical and scientific aspects of the pharmacovigilance network to the World Health Organization."
According to this document, the most frequent reactions of this drug are blurred vision, arthralgia (joint pain), abdominal pain, vomiting and diarrhea, asthenia (fatigue) and pyrexia (fever), dizziness and urticaria.
There are also rare effects such as conjunctivitis, orthostatic hypotension (decreased blood pressure), tachycardia and hypersensitivity reaction.
The only rare effect is the Mazzotti reaction, which causes fever, tachycardia, and hypotension.
Dr. Celis - who is at the forefront of attention in the region most affected by the pandemic in the country - said that while ivermectin is a drug with few side effects for parasitic diseases, possible side events in people infected with Covid-19 have not yet been studied.
For this, he said, it is essential to conduct randomized clinical trials in animals and humans.
It takes a lot of sample to prove something.
The fact that a drug works in laboratory conditions does not guarantee that it is effective in humans. "
The specialist recalled that, according to official reports on the disease, 80% of people infected with Covid-19 recover because most are mild cases.
Then you can fool anything you use.
If, for example, you take a plant and you recover, that doesn 't mean it' s the cure.
I have to follow certain scientific steps to prove effectiveness. "
In the same vein, infective physician Manuel Espinoza of the Ministry of Health said that ivermectin produces adverse effects on very rare occasions, such as diarrhea, anaphylaxis (severe allergic reaction) or urticaria.
The use of this drug is spreading through the networks, not knowing very well whether it is actually effective, and the harm it might cause.
All are speculation at the moment.
On the one hand, clinical trials are newly oriented towards the management of patients, not based on what is prophylactic (preventive). "
In a recent article published by Public Eye it is explained that there are currently several studies on the effectiveness of ivermectin to treat Covid-19, but that conclusive results are still pending and some may take up to 2023.
On the contrary, according to the article, initial enthusiasm for ivermectin from certain laboratory data has generated criticism from specialists and researchers because it is not the same laboratory result as a trial with patients, and because any drug in high doses generates risks.
In other words, showing antiviral activity in cells is one thing.
Demonstrating that it works against SARS-CoV-2 in humans, and getting the correct dose, is a much more complicated proposal and could cause serious side effects, "the authors point out.
Slow.
A recent Public Eye report reveals possible adverse effects that drugs used to combat the pandemic could cause in the region.
In this regard, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the US agency that regulates the use of medicines and is considered a global benchmark, has warned of a number of reactions that may trigger ivermectin, such as rash, liver injuries, swelling of the face or limbs.
Juan More, a researcher at the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine of the Universidad Mayor de San Marcos (UNSSM), said that ivermectin is approved as a safe drug for diseases and particular species types (human or animal), and not specifically to treat Covid-19.
Therefore, although its use has been admitted in medical protocols seeking to treat the disease, it is not certain what the effect would be if one took it without professional supervision.
Any drug has contraindications and would have a potentially harmful effect on the person taking it.
For the internist Germán Málaga of the Cayetano Heredia Hospital, ivermectin in normal doses is a safe medicine, although it can cause the patient to have liver disease and nervous system problems.
"And if applied intramuscularly it has more harmful consequences," said Málaga regarding the use of ivermectin in animals (injectable), which, according to several public reports, has been applied to patients with Covid-19.
In fact, a group of infective physicians detailed two cases of patients from Requena district in the Loreto region who suffered damage after taking ivermectin medication.
"There are two cases of necrotic ulcers that follow the subcutaneous application of ivermectin for veterinary use, so its administration should be observed," read the article published on June 12 in the Revista de la Sociedad Peruana de Medicina Interna.
In addition, Dr. Málaga also emphasized the lack of scientific support for ivermectin in cases of the new coronavirus.
"Of course, I give [ivermectin] to a person who has scabies, but his liver works well, his kidney and heart are normal, and he doesn't have a systemic problem...................
If ivermectin is safe in a type of patient, this does not necessarily apply to patients with Covid-19. "
In the same vein, Eduardo Gotuzzo, infectologist of the Committee of Experts of the Ministry of Health (Minsa), pointed out to the Public Eye that ivermectin, in cases of parasitosis, has caused few collateral.
Gotuzzo recalled that it should not be used to prevent the disease.
This is because it generates massive abuse of the drug; and the effect of false sense of security can cause people to stop following the most effective prevention measures against the virus: hand washing, physical distancing, and masquerading.
According to the Technical Document for Prevention, Diagnosis and Treatment of People Affected by Covid-19 in Peru, there is no evidence with clinical trials that serve "to recommend specific treatments in patients suspected or confirmed of infection with Covid-19 virus."
In one section it is read that ivermectin along with other drugs are under investigation.
On the other hand, the Covid-19 ambulatory patient management protocol, published last June 9, indicates that ivermectin or hydroxychloroquine will only be administered in mild patients who, in turn, are part of the risk group (obese, hypertensive, elderly, diabetic, among others).
The paper notes that contraindications for ivermectin include hypersensitivity of its components in pregnant and lactating patients.
It states that they should be administered under strict medical surveillance and monitoring for adverse effects.
He sought out Victor Moncada for details on his claim.
In this regard, he said that he was based on what "doctors [and] pharmaceutical chemists say."
He then added that ivermectin "is only not recommended for people with severe liver damage [or] cirrhosis."
However, according to the experts consulted, this is not correct either.
The side effect can affect anyone, regardless of whether they have a particular condition.
Medical allergies are unpredictable, "remarked doctor Augusto Tarazona, of the Medical College of Peru (CMP).
Finally, mentioning the collateral damage that this drug can cause, Moncada insisted on using the drug because it hurts "to a minimum."
In summary, while the side effects of ivermectin are rare in antiparasitic treatments, there is still no solid scientific evidence to rule out possible collateral damage in patients with Covid-19.
Currently, according to the Minsa protocol, it should be administered in mild cases of patients with pre-existing diseases.
Based on the above, Public Eye concludes that the information suggesting that ivermectin has no side effects is false.
Updated 14 December 2020.
Hour: 12: 47 pm
On November 20, 2020, the Ministry of Health (Minsa) updated the protocol for ambulatory management of persons affected by Covid-19.
For the treatment of symptomatic patients, Minsa recommended that the use of ivermectin for patients with risk factors be left to the medical.
Hydrochloroquine stopped appearing in its guidelines.