Study of CDS (improved version of MMS, chlorine dioxide) in 104 humans infected with COVID-19
I guess this post will automatically be reduced to nothing or sent to the conspiracy sub-forum.
But what we 're showing you here is not magic, it' s science.
This is the first well-documented study of SarsCoV2 virus treatment using chlorine dioxide orally and intravenously.
Study of CDS (improved version of MMS, chlorine dioxide) in 104 humans infected with COVID-19.
Here you have the official preliminary clinical trial document in Ecuador of Oral and Intravenous CDS of the medical association of AEMEMI with signed notarial deed and reliable data demonstrating the efficacy of both Oral and Parenteral chlorine dioxide as an effective substance against coronavirus with an effectiveness of 97%.
How long will it take the conventional media to talk about this cheap, innocuous and unpatentable solution to the current supposed pandemic, among other ills?
The essay was made in Guayaquil Ecuador and is in the public domain to be distributed freely as long as the content is not altered.
It is provided on the following link:
https: / / cdn.lfryplayer.xyz / content /... af59ac186a8c3645280de7 25dc5 / stream? download = 1
We are talking about an elaborate and signed study of 7 doctors.
Please take it into account before you directly censor it.
Opinion of Andreas Kalcker on this study of Guayaquil.
Summary is too much daily information
Please, as I said, this is a study done on 104 patients.
They have informed consent, various PCR tests and others within the attached PDF.
We should not close ourselves to new problems... because new problems need new solutions.
While solutions are not being sought here, Ecuador's Deputy Minister of Health has been present at this study.
Mantarufo said: Resume is too much daily information
The last image is the summary.
Tranquilo ALSO AS WE KNOW IT WORKS AGAINST COVID, THESE WINDOWS ARE GOING TO ASK YOU FOR DOUBLE STUDIES THAT DON'T HAVE THE FAUCI VACUANA AND KILL GATES I JOJOJOJOJOJO
AND NO VACUANA.
Mantarufo said: Resume is too much daily information
Too much information, 15 lines of text?
Thank you very much for the information, Technical.
I hope that with the report you attach the Sres.
Inquisitors of the forum are satisfied and leave the thread where it is.
We're talking about an 84-page medical study... authenticated by a notary.
With the DNIs of the principal investigator and the data of the other 6, with the informed consent of the patients subjected to the study, with histological data, with analysts, with the contribution of PCR test positives, etc.
What about the control group?
To which equivalent group did these disciples of the Kalcker charlatan not give MMS to check that it is MMS that causes some positive effect?
Obviously, if you give them anything innocuous enough not to kill you directly to a group of people between 30 and 50 years old with a virus that in the vast majority of cases doesn 't kill in that age group, it' s no mystery that they end up recovering.
I could do a study exactly the same by saying that water cures Coronavirus, because I 'm sure that in addition to MMS they also took water.
In what scientific publication would you say they 're going to try to publish this?
Thank you @ a concerned technician I looked at the report above and in general the symptoms are reduced by 82% to the fourth day if I read well, without need of hospitalization.
If there is nothing else to say, the first thing that dies in wars is the truth, seeing what they censor deduces what is there.
Well, at the end YouTube censored me the only video I had on my YouTube channel about MMS.
It was a six-minute cut from Channel One in Colombia.
I mean, it was an official thing that's still going to be on YouTube... but my 6 minutes without any modification is not.
Fortunately I made a copy and save it on this server.
News 1-Colombia-2-5-2020 chlorine dioxide treatment COVID1902.mp4
In the video you can see the pathetic attempt of this television network to ridicule the research project of a possible treatment of COVID19 with chlorine dioxide by a Colombian doctor.
You will tell me that it is wrong to show 6 minutes of a report that has been on TV.
This kind of censorship is a kind of bread crumb that shows us that we 're going the right way.
A concerned technician said: We are talking about an 84-page medical study... authenticated by a notary.
With the DNIs of the principal investigator and the data of the other 6, with the informed consent of the patients subjected to the study, with histological data, with analysts, with the contribution of PCR test positives, etc.
You don 't need to know a lot about medicine or scientific studies to realize that a study in which you take a group of people in an age range in which the vast majority of people get over the virus, you give them anything that doesn' t kill them, and then you 're amazed that most people actually cure, is a study that' s worth a little bit.
What was the control group?
And by the way, the goodness of scientific research doesn 't validate a notary. Have you heard of peer review?
a concerned technician said: I assume that this post will automatically be reduced to nothing or sent to the conspiracy sub.
But what we 're showing you here is not magic, it' s science.
This is the first well-documented study of SarsCoV2 virus treatment using chlorine dioxide orally and intravenously.
Study of CDS (improved version of MMS, chlorine dioxide) in 104 humans infected with COVID-19.
Here you have the official preliminary clinical trial document in Ecuador of Oral and Intravenous CDS of the medical association of AEMEMI with signed notarial deed and reliable data demonstrating the efficacy of both Oral and Parenteral chlorine dioxide as an effective substance against coronavirus with an effectiveness of 97%.
How long will it take the conventional media to talk about this cheap, innocuous and unpatentable solution to the current supposed pandemic, among other ills?
The essay was made in Guayaquil Ecuador and is in the public domain to be distributed freely as long as the content is not altered.
It is available on the following link: https: / / cdn.lblyplayer.xyz / content /... af59ac186a8c3645280de7.25dc5 / stream? download = 1 We are talking about an elaborate and signed study 7 doctors.
Please take it into account before you directly censor it.
See attachment 321837 See attachment 321838 See attachment 321839 See attachment 321841 See attachment 321842 See attachment 321843 See attachment 321845 See attachment 321846 See attachment 321848 Click to expand...
A complete success.
A sample of 104 patients with alterations of the leukocyte and ferritin formula, let's go what we see in the assumed Covid 19.
At 4 days remission of symptoms, not one death.
Toxicity is clear that there is no argument, no argument.
Very good news with this studio without a doubt!!!
Congratulations to the researchers.
It is clear that the pharmaceutical industry is not interested in curing or doing business.
Hence all attacks on this good, cheap and effective solution.
Thank you for this very important news.