Searching for Patient Zero from covid-19
There is an official version, an unofficial version, and a conspiracy theory.
The search for the zero patient of covid-19 has become a stepping-stone hunt in which elite scientists from around the world have engaged to develop a detective work that so far disproves three parallel hypotheses.
There is consensus that the metropolis of Wuhan, the capital of Hubei Province, in the heart of China, is the starting point.
As of December 2019, this city of almost 12 million inhabitants became the epicentre of the outbreak that a few weeks later became a pandemic and that now holds all humanity in disarray.
From there, the rest is uncertain.
World public opinion has accepted as true a first widely circulated account.
According to that story, four months ago an anonymous person consumed a poorly cooked bat soup at the exotic seafood and animal market in Wuhan.
Through the dish, an anonymous virus also passed from the winged mammal to the body of the commensal, who in turn, unknowingly, infected everyone with whom he had contact.
Today, in light of new findings, the story is on the table.
Two theories, 21 days and several kilometers apart
The search for the index case, also called the first registered patient of a new disease, is a crucial work in establishing the pattern of infection for which there are well-trained international teams.
You can have an idea watching the movie.
Contagion
(2011), by Steven Soderbergh, a film that has been cited to the horror in recent weeks because some say it is a foregone conclusion to what is happening with coronavirus today.
In this film, a team of expert epidemiologists follows the lead of patient zero of a lethal viral disease that has its genesis in Hong Kong.
The film explains details about this investigation, making reference to any crime thriller or novel.
In the case of covid-19, both the official version of the World Health Organization (WHO) and the unofficial version broadcast by Chinese media, place patient zero in Hubei, but with two weeks and a few kilometers difference.
According to the WHO, the first known patient of covid-19 became ill on 8 December 2019 and was directly related to the Wuhan market, where two-thirds of the infected people emerged from the first outbreak.
Only the WHO places the patient zero in the Marshes Market.
According to the Chinese press, Patient Zero could be anywhere in Hubei Province.
By contrast, the alternative theory is part of an investigation released this week by the South China Morning Post, which cites alleged confidential Chinese government documents.
According to the media, the outbreak began 21 days before the WHO says, and claims that patient zero is not related to the Wuhan market, but somewhere in a 200-square-kilometre territory.
The media say that the index case is a 55-year-old person, who is not exactly from Wuhan, but from Hubei province.
The patient showed signs of infection on November 17, 2019.
He did not reveal his identity or how his disease evolved, but from him began the spread that days later reached the Wuhan market.
This new hypothesis does not eliminate the involvement of the bat as a vector.
The theory that the animal is the prime suspect is based on its history as a confirmed cause of previous epidemics of other types of coronavirus such as Agudo Severo Respiratory Syndrome (Sars) in the early 2000s, and Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (Mers) in 2010.
Some scientists even blame the bat for transmitting Ebola.
The mammal appears to be a flying repository of viruses of all kinds and is especially the "natural host" of the various coronaviruses.
On the other hand, it has also been reported that it is likely that the virus did not jump directly from bats to patient zero, but needed an intermediary.
Among the options that have been explored are the civet, a small cat-like quadrupedal that is consumed in some regions of China, and the pangolins, a large armadillo-like scale-covered species that has the sad merit of being the world's most trafficked mammal, and therefore is on the verge of extinction.
- 28.
(a.k.a.
Biological weapon?
The Chinese government has spread a third story that effectively starts the outbreak in Wuhan but not because of animal-human contagion, but because of a deliberate spread in which the US government is involved, from where the strain is said to have been imported.
Chinese chancellor Lijian Zhao, through his Twitter account, has circulated several scientific and journalistic articles that confirm this.
As of August 2019, patients with symptoms identical to that of covid-19 have been reported in the United States.
This virus, once detected, was isolated, studied and manipulated by the US military, which realized its potential as a biological weapon.
As such, the Chinese government claims, in the context of America's undeclared Cold War against its country, the Trump administration decided to take the virus to China for dissemination, and the time it got most favorable was the 2019 World Military Games, which took place in Wuhan from October 18 to 27, 2019, and in which effective US forces participated.
According to the articles that support this theory, the dates and figures are 100 percent as to ensure that it was from there that the virus originated, so to be certain, the global index case would be in the US and the China index case is in Wuhan and should have some minimal proximity to this sporting event.
Other less-supported conspiracy theories link the outbreak with the fact that Wuhan is home to one of the world's leading biosecurity laboratories, where scientists from several countries work under WHO supervision with high-risk biological agents, such as the cause of this new disease.
Those who support this hypothesis say that the covid-19 virus may have leaked from these facilities, either accidentally or maliciously.
The Most Sounded Patients
The concept of "patient zero" is challenged by various branches of medicine and epidemiology, especially when it comes to zoonotic diseases, i.e. those transmitted to humans from animals.
Those who object to the idea argue that it could not be a person but an entire community.
But that has not discouraged WHO, the Chinese government, the media, and independent scientists around the world from following the lead of the person they believe might be the prime case of the new coronavirus.
Apart from the most sought-after, that patient zero, other famous infected covid-19 have been key figures in the research on how this new disease lives and spreads.
Patient 31 from South Korea is one of these.
Studies on his case were possible due to his reckless disregard for the quarantine order he received from Seoul authorities upon arriving from a trip to Wuhan in mid-January.
Korean health measures had managed to keep the number of infections at 30 until patient 31 spread the virus for two weeks in the city of Daegu, repeatedly attending the supermarket, church, restaurants, a funeral, and even a car accident that caused her to pass through several hospitals.
He was in contact with more than 9,000 people and was directly responsible for 1,200 infections.
The way the virus spread gave more insight into the behavior of the disease.
Another of the most sought-after was Patient Zero from Europe, a 33-year-old German businessman, who held working meetings with a Shanghai-based business partner who traveled to Munich carrying the virus but without symptoms, which developed during his return to China days later.
The manner in which this contagion was given was crucial for doctors to determine that the disease spread even during its incubation period, when it is asymptomatic.
The discovery from this case was published by a group of German doctors in the New England Journal of Medicine (NEJM).
Finally, what is officially US Patient Zero, a 60-year-old woman who arrived in Illinois from a trip to Wuhan, was diagnosed on January 23.
She first infected her husband, who became patient zero for secondary transmission in North America.
This case was studied to deepen the time of exposure to the virus needed to be contagious.
After detection, 347 people were followed for 14 days with whom both patients had contact, none of whom were eventually infected.
The findings of this study, published in the medical journal The Lancet, contradict the WHO's classification of covid-19 as highly contagious, even with minimal contact.
Meanwhile, the numbers of people affected by the new coronavirus continue to skyrocket across the five continents, and faster and more massive than that, fear continues to proliferate.
Knowing the exact origin of this new disease will be a vital contribution to the study and search for a vaccine and treatment.
Finding the genesis of covid-19, whatever it is, will make humanity understand the real size of the challenge it is forced to face.