Coronavirus treatments: what progress has been made in the search for a cure for covid-19
In different parts of the world, they 're researching over 150 different drugs.
It has been three months since the World Health Organization (WHO) declared that the expansion of covid-19 had become a pandemic.
It was on March 11 and since then a significant number of studies have been launched on possible treatments for the disease.
In fact, some progress has already been made in the search for effective medicines.
Laboratories in different parts of the world are investigating over 150 different drugs.
Most of it already existed in the shelves of the pharmacies and are now being tested against the virus.
Maybe you're also interested
WHO launched the trial
Solidarity
intended to evaluate the most promising treatments.
The United Kingdom says that his trial, dubbed as
is the largest in the world.
More than 11,000 patients participated.
It has been shown that one of the drugs she is studying, dexamethasone, helps save the lives of severely ill patients with coronavirus.
Several research centers around the world are trying to use survivors' blood as treatment.
Dexamethasone is cheap and easy to get.
Antiviral drugs that directly affect the ability of coronavirus to develop within the body.
Medications that can moderate the immune system's response: patients become seriously ill when their immune system overreacts and starts causing collateral damage to the body.
Antibodies, whether from survivors' blood or made in a laboratory, can attack the virus.
Dexamethasone, the first drug that has been shown to save the lives of people with covid-19, has been recognized as a major breakthrough.
Initial results showed that this low-cost steroid reduces the risk of death by one-third for patients who need respirators and one-fifth for those who need oxygen.
Coronavirus infection triggers inflammation when the body tries to fight it.
This can cause a strong immune response and it is this reaction that can be fatal.
Dexamethasone is a free-making drug, so many companies make it.
Clinical trials of remdesivir, an antiviral drug originally developed to treat Ebola, have also been encouraging.
A US-led trial with over 1,000 people worldwide found that remdesivir reduced the duration of symptoms from 15 days to 11.
In this study some patients received the drug and others received placebo (fictitious) treatment.
It is one of four drugs in the WHO Solidarity trial and its manufacturer, Gilead, is also organizing trials.
However, while remdesivir may help recovery, and possibly prevent people from having to be treated in intensive care, studies so far have given no clear indication of whether it can prevent coronavirus deaths.
Antivirals are believed to be more effective in the early stages and immune drugs when the disease is more advanced.
Gilead developed the Redemsevir to fight the Ebola.
Although much has been said, there is little evidence that a pair of HIV drugs, lopinavir and ritonavir, can be effective in treating coronavirus.
The results show that they can work in the laboratory environment, but the studies in people have had disappointing results.
The combination did not improve recovery, nor did it reduce deaths or decrease virus levels in patients with severe covid-19.
However, since the trial was conducted with extremely ill patients (nearly a quarter died), it could be that the infection was so advanced that the drugs did not work.
The World Health Organization (WHO) has stated that it has not approved any pharmacological treatment for covid-19.
Malaria drugs are both part of the trial
Solidarity
of the World Health Organisation
Recovery
of the United Kingdom.
Chloroquine and one of its derivatives, hydroxychloroquine, can have antiviral and calming properties of the immune system.
Some believe that drugs could function as possible therapies for coronavirus, largely because of claims made by US President Donald Trump, but there is still little evidence of their effectiveness.
Hydroxychloroquine is also used as a treatment for rheumatoid arthritis, because it helps regulate the immune system.
Early laboratory tests have shown that they can inhibit coronavirus, but there are growing concerns about its use against disease.
The WHO says there is no definitive evidence for the effectiveness of hydroxychloroquine.
Another finding from the UK Recovery trial was that hydroxychloroquine does not work as a treatment for covid-19 and therefore this drug has been withdrawn from the study.
The WHO had previously suspended its global trials of hydroxychloroquine after a large-scale study in
, which revealed that using this medicine can cause heart problems and, in fact, increases the probability of death.
The WHO says there is no definitive evidence of its effectiveness.
People who pass an infection usually retain antibodies in the blood, which their body made to fight the disease.
The idea is to take the blood plasma (the part containing antibodies) and give it to a sick patient as therapy.
Plasma transfusions offer hope to patients with covid-19.
The US has already treated 500 patients with what is known as "convalescent plasma," and other countries are also exploring this route.
It's too soon to know when we might have a drug that can treat coronavirus.
In the coming months, however, we should start getting test results.
It is long before we know whether a vaccine (which protects against infection rather than treating it) is effective.
This is because doctors are testing drugs that have already been developed and are known to be safe enough to use in people, while research on vaccines begins from scratch.
Effective treatment is key to making the disease lighter and saving many lives.
Some completely new experimental drugs against coronavirus are being tested in the laboratory, but are not yet ready for testing in humans.
The most obvious reason is that it will save lives, but it could also allow the quarantines imposed in many countries to be lifted.
Having effective treatment, in essence, would make coronavirus a lighter disease.
If people entering the hospital are prevented from reaching a point where they need mechanical ventilation, there would be less risk of intensive care units collapsing, so controls on people's movement might not be so strict.
You can now receive notifications from BBC World.
Download the new version of our app and activate it so you don't lose our best content.