Coronavirus Update (COVID-19): FDA issues an Urgent Use Authorization for possible treatment of COVID-19
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has issued an Urgent Use Authorization today of the anti-viral drug in research to resuspend for the treatment of suspected or laboratory confirmed cases of COVID-19 in adults and children hospitalized with severe disease.
Although there is little information on the safety and efficacy of remdesivir for treating people hospitalized with COVID-19, it was shown in a clinical trial that the investigational drug reduces the recovery period in some patients.
"The FDA's urgent authorization to resect, two days after the National Institutes of Health (NIH) clinical trial showed promising results, is a significant step in the fight against COVID-19 and another example of the Trump Administration moving as fast as possible to use science to save lives," said Department of Health and Human Services (HH) Secretary Alex Azar.
NIH, FDA and scientists in the United States and around the world have worked tirelessly with patients to offer this possible new treatment for COVID-19.
Close cooperation between government and private industry under the President of America's approach to COVID-19 is offering treatment options to patients in record time. "
The emergency use authorization allows remdesivir to be distributed in the U.S. and administered intravenously by health care providers, as appropriate, to treat COVID-19 in suspected or laboratory confirmed cases in hospitalized adults and children with severe disease.
Serious disease is defined as patients with low levels of oxygen in the blood, or who need oxygen therapy or more intensive respiratory support such as a mechanical fan.
Since day one, the FDA has been committed to accelerating the development and availability of possible treatments for COVID-19.
The step taken today is an important step in our efforts to collaborate with innovators and researchers to provide patients with timely access to new therapies when appropriate, and at the same time, to support research to further assess whether they are safe and effective, "said FDA Commissioner Stephen M Hahn, MD.
There is great interest in all stakeholders in identifying and obtaining drugs to combat COVID-19, and through our Acceleration Program for the Treatment of Coronavirus, the FDA is working day and night, and is using all the tools at our disposal to advance these efforts.
Based on the assessment of the emergency use authorization criteria and the available scientific evidence, it was determined that it is reasonable to believe that remdesivir may be effective in the treatment of COVID-19 and that, in the absence of suitable, approved or available alternative treatments, the known and potential benefits for treating this serious or life-threatening virus currently outweigh the known and potential risks of the use of the drug.
Urgent use authorization (USA) also requires that information sheets providing important information on the use of remdesivir in the treatment of COVID-19 be available to health care providers and patients, including dosage instructions, possible side effects and pharmacological interactions.
Possible side effects of remdesivir include: increased liver enzyme levels, which may be a sign of inflammation or damage to liver cells, and infusion-related reactions, including low blood pressure, nausea, vomiting, sweating and chills.
Following a declaration by the Secretary of HHS that there are circumstances justifying the urgent use of non-approved products, the FDA may issue an urgent use authorization to allow non-approved medical products or non-approved uses of approved medical products to be used in an emergency to diagnose, treat, or prevent severe or life-threatening diseases or conditions caused by chemical, biological, radiological, and nuclear threats when appropriate, approved and available alternatives do not exist.
The US issuance is different from FDA approval.
In determining whether to issue a U.S., the FDA evaluates the available evidence and carefully compares the known or potential risks of unproven products with the known or potential benefits of making it available during the emergency.
The U.S. was awarded to Gilead Sciences Inc.
The FDA previously permitted the study of the drug in research in clinical trials, as well as the use of expanded access for individual patients and through an expanded access program coordinated by Gilead for several patients.
The U.S. will remain in force until the statement that there are circumstances justifying the authorization of the urgent use of biological drugs and products for the prevention and treatment of COVID-19 is final, and may be reviewed or revoked if it is determined that the U.S. no longer meets the legal criteria for its issuance.
The FDA, an agency that is part of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, protects public health by ensuring the safety, efficacy and protection of human and veterinary drugs, vaccines and other biological products for human use, and medical devices.
The agency is also responsible for the safety of the supply of food, cosmetics, food supplements, products that emit electronic radiation, and regulating tobacco products in our nation.
# #