Eduardo Gotuzzo: "Hydrochloroquine is a safe drug (for the treatment of COVID-19)" [VIDEO]
Last week, the World Health Organization suspended testing with hydroxychloroquine in the Solidarity clinical trial, which seeks safe treatment for the new coronavirus, following the publication of a study warning of its risks.
However, Eduardo Gotuzzo, an infectious doctor, clarified that this drug is as safe as ivermectin.
"Hydrochloroquine has been widely discussed because in the world it is used in more than 55 clinical trials... The article that brought a lot of noise, today all researchers have criticized it extensively for a series of errors and bad information.
They have created a false idea that hydroxychloroquine is not safe in hospitalized patients.
Remember that most research in the world has been done in hospitalized patients....
This medicine has activity against the virus, so we want to give the treatment in the first days, barely show the symptoms, "Eduardo Gotuzzo explained to Perú21TV.
This treatment should be done by doctors so that people do not go to the pharmacy (to ask for the medicine).
We have already asked the Ministry of Health and Social Security to open their emergency clinics and pharmacies, "he added.
The specialist clarified that the WHO has not banned the use of hydroxychloroquine nor recommended banning its use, only suspended it in the clinical trial called Solidaridad, which he and Dr. Patricia García are co-investigators in Peru.
There are thousands of patients with rheumatoid arthritis or lupus who receive treatment for years and it's safe.
It's proven safe in pregnant women, it doesn't affect foetuses, and it doesn't affect childbirth, "she said.
MIRA: Case of George Floyd: "Structural racism reproduces social differences in favour of one and at the expense of others," said Juan Carlos Callirgos | VIDEO
"To provide safety to the population, all rheumatological patients who are receiving hydroxychloroquine, please do not suspend it... And patients with COVID-19 who are going to be treated, have confidence.
We believe it is safe and useful to prevent (the disease) from progressing to pneumonia.
I would say that hydroxychloroquine is a safe drug, used for many years, is a drug that in an ambulatory form can be a weapon to fight and contain this remarkable number of patients who die in Peru every day, "Gotuzzo said.
The infectologist also supported the use of ivermectin and asserted that "after aspirin there should be no medicine in the world that has been used so much."
He also warned about the use of antibiotics: "Anticoagulants, corticosteroids or azithromycin, are the three things that should not be done (in the treatment of COVID-19)."
On the permission to exercise in the streets he said he agreed but recommended that athletes do it gradually to measure their response to the use of the mask.
It's good for your health to exercise but you have to recognize that they're not your normal exercise.
You have to act with moderation... If I get too tired or I have a problem, I have to lower my mask (to breathe) but in a place where it is alone.
There are people who run two or three hours, now what they should do is run a short time to go to training, in order to know what it is like to do masquerade exercises.
They can't use the N95, it's carried, but the fabric masks, "he added.
VIDEO RECOMMENDED
Smokers are more likely to get COVID-19