(Video revealing) Is Covid-19 a virus deliberately created by the Chinese?
The media hides the information and we have the evidence.
99.9% confirmed no zoonoses.
That came out of a lab like SIEMRA must have happened to other suspected pandemics.
Like HIV and the Ebola strain.
For the sake of progress, apply the recently passed euthanasia law to Carmen Calvo (who has passed, and has not recovered), who voted for that law a few weeks ago.
And to Irene Montero, the one of Pablo Iglesias, who has also given a positive, and has not recovered either (And she herself, voted that law a few months ago, I think proposed by her husband).
And to the wife of Pedro Sanchez, who has also been positive, and has not recovered (And her husband, I voted that law a few months ago).
It is for his sake, for his progress, progressive laws.
That's right... Read more "
Do you give me the negatives because of the proposal, or because at the end I say it's a joke and I want them to recover?
The Wuhan laboratory is accessible to Anglo-Saxon criminals of the NOM.
The family with the name of the dog breed known to all has the patent of "coronavirus."
The Chinese have also sinned as fools and have the enemy inside.
My conclusion is that the Anglo-Saxon intelligence agencies have been out of government control since World War II and under the orders of the "Unwanted Co-operative" that is trying to implement the New World Order.
It 's not COVID-19, it' s a socio-political metaphor that by action or omission, politicians have allowed.
Liberal democracy remains a mere... Read more "
It is worth seeing this video that was already published on youtube in 2010 and someone has published it again.
exact
https: / / www.youtube.com / watch? v = SpPcgKaJ _ E4
I was referring to this a few days ago when I said that viruses that are "synthetic" or modified for biological warfare leave "signature."
If SARS-coV-2 has a "signature" in the form of this supposed protein "SA14," the implications will be brutal.
It will end up knowing and unleashing a war of economic and other responsibilities.
Bombers, let's go.
Another thing is that it would be a P4-level escape from bad practice, but China would also be a subsidiary.
And well, about secrecy, I don 't know what to say.
By this time all leading research laboratories in biotechnological warfare must already know the truth perfectly, and a premeditated attack does not... Read more "............................
It is now understood why the Chinese government reacted so quickly, building field hospitals.
He knew what he was up against.
And in addition, they probably weren 't trying to cure the infected population either, if not to investigate it...................
As part of the experiment.
The virus created in the laboratory to infect humans, the only way to test its effects is by infecting humans.
They probably infected a patient inside the lab and, as on other subsequent occasions, believed that the virus had already disappeared from the patient, after having overcome the disease, but... Read more "
I give you the reason that there is so much to investigate and so much more to EXPLAIN.
Historically, overcrowding, lack of hygiene, and overcrowding have caused the most devastating plagues, and zoonosis is often behind them.
If launching an attack with a synthetic virus was that easy, I assure you, we would no longer be 10% human.
Military espionage and current biotechnological techniques make it possible to identify whether a pandemic has a natural origin or not.
China should be called to account.
The economy after the fall of the USSR consisted mainly of transferring technology and capital (pavilions, machinery, etc.).
to third world countries.
In particular, China, in compliance with the bronze law of David Ricardo, paid subsistence wages to workers.
Liberal economists broke down, leaving Western countries in ruins.
Ruins that have been hidden on the basis of loans and credits from international banks..........
Now we see the real cost of this ultra-liberal policy.
We will see how the pandemic ends, but when it does... Read more "
This whole thing is a sham.
In Spain and Italy, the figures are being inflated to extremes.
In fact, what they 're doing is diverting several thousand of the seasonal dead from influenza, pneumonias, pulmonary sepsis, and other respiratory diseases to coronavirus, the reason is not that, but there can be many: Ending cash, Justifying future cuts, Creating Eurobonds, Private account slips, Imposing forced vaccination campaigns to sterilize a portion of the population, Increasing mortality by sedentism, and so on.
That's the real... Read more "
As described in the Protocols of the Elders of Sio.
That's right, Gerardo.
Everything follows Zion's Millennial Master Plan.
I would love that one day the master Laureano Benitez would touch on the subject of the Protocols of Zion, the letter from Pike to Mazzini, even to rescue some statements from the incommensurable André MAlby, being that he spoke to us from other times and other worlds, with the most humble love, the disguised hostility.
These are subjects that have been tried to deny once and a thousand times, but the evidence is there, how do you refute them?
Well, I think the virus is absolutely real, it 's identified and sequenced.
Sadly, many will not recognize it until it attacks their close social environment.
Emerging viruses are scientific evidence.
Another issue, and focusing on protocols, is whether these pandemics can be used in favor of someone, even "promoted," feigning an "escape" from biological research material that must have been destroyed.
China has been using, over recent years, huge amounts of Pangolins for use in biotechnology laboratories.
For what purpose?
They seem to have been aware from August 19 of a new virus, and there they were going to isolate it.
... Read more "
The problem is that there is no immune system that defends us from experts and scientists.
When we see those who win and those who lose, we will know and hate where it comes from.
The most genocidal government that has trampled the face of the earth.
Can anyone expect anything good from such fucking communist children?
Everything we imagine about his wickedness is short, cortismo.
Cabronazos.
Live in Spain.
Who accessed this virus?
How did it spread?
And why?
We 're starting from a number of certainties: It' s a laboratory virus.
Consequences: the confinement of society.
Is this about plugging another global hole?
Is there censorship?
Mena even if you're retired, can you send us one of your notes?
Communist Chinese bastards.
And those who will have been shot to finish sooner.
Then go buy the Chinese.
They closed their chiringos two weeks earlier.
Unable to open video.
I thought so at first.
The Chinese, knowing what their intentions were, prepared well in advance knowing that if they were shot in the foot the bounce would give us all over his, leaving us like headless chickens.
A Chinese regime that now prepares its army to show up at the home of anyone else on its continent.
It is a valid hypothesis for a genocide that goes free between colleagues.
It is curious how they deny it: https: / / www.niusdiario.es / vida / visto-oido / coronavirus-video-rai-viral-italia-bulo-scientificos-nigan _ 18 _ 2920845112.html
They say a laboratory virus is different from a natural one, but there is no explanation for what that difference is.
They take us for fools.
Are we going to believe that it 's a coincidence that there' s a natural virus of identical characteristics as described in the video, in the Wuhan lab?
Thanks Charlotte, I had seen it, but I didn't know that the media hitmen had denied it.
I added that the virus was released in the Chinese New Year when the Chinese traveled all over the territory and Wuhan is China's main airport, apparently... to spread better.
And that just before, Soros had bought shares in that lab that he came out of, and I think he sold them.
There is a video about it circulating through the networks.
That it is a laboratory virus is very likely.
It seems deliberate to eliminate the elderly...
Can anyone tell me if there are any statistics on how this virus affects the different races and ethnicities of the human species?
I have suspicions to confirm.
He doesn't do anything to black people.
These socialist pathogens in their current layer have already become rich thanks to Rabbi Merkel's mother.
Daughter-in-law, we will now realize that we have a shitty education because to compete with Chinese technology in this biological war we require Spaniards to study and not mumbles like the one we have to count dead every day on the canvas when it was weeks without seeing what was coming upon us.
Silly bastard, Simon the Reaper.
But the most alarming thing is not just to confirm that the virus is laboratory.
If it's not the fact that they've been hiding it from us, they'll keep doing it and talking about the zoonosis.
It is not a conspiracy theory, if not a proven fact of a conspiracy, which seeks to conceal the responsibilities of certain laboratories.
That is why we must ask for responsibilities to be cleared up.
I spoke to a very close relative who is a microbiologist.
He says it is normal to experiment with viruses with genetic insertions to determine certain virulence factors and thus develop drugs against them.
I have no idea.
But it practically confirms to me that one experiences, and much.. In white and in bottle, pangolin is not the culprit.
Pd; you 've told me that proteins can be inserted and that these can be infectious.
Like mad cows.
No idea.
Only intention defines a human act as morally good or bad, and in the case of experiments, this is no different.
But in this context, excluding the wicked who participate in the mystery of iniquity, it is necessary that in those in which his good intention is evident always be carried out from prudence, which has so much to do with humility, to avoid regrettable consequences.
For our action in the wonderful creation must be beneficial, and this will be so if we never forget the fear of God.
There are a number of things that don 't fit, whether it' s the Chinese who got away with it like Bill Gates talking about a possible pandemic last October in a forum in the US of a virus created or not that would affect the world that you can see on YouTube.
Besides how a virus jumps from China to Iran first knowing they are the enemy bows of the US?
India etc.
It is curious that there was a trade war between China and the US, and the Chinese had protests in Hong Kong, now the virus, before they had other viruses... Read more "
When the churras are mixed with the merinas, a comment like yours comes out.
The experiment was being conducted in China, and the virus came out of China.
Moreover, it became known to the world when Chinese leaders realized that they could no longer hide it.
The Chinese are not yet the world's first power and they want to burden the entire population, mainly Western, imagine what they will do if they come to rule the world, enslave us as their descendants and apply to us the same measures of control https: / / www.youtube.com / watch? v = lH2gMNrUUEY Today's Jews come from the Yazars, who were of mongoloid race like the Chinese, only that they mixed with other races to disguise, if anyone believed the Yanks were bad that they were preparing for the little Chinese...
Perdoan, but the Yazars I understand are not Semitic, but if they practice Judaism.
I recommend videos of Jorge Guerra on YouTube, which clearly explains it.
Whether it was by accident or deliberately.. China is responsible.
China remains the great threat to the West in every way.
This globalised world has given that country free rein and its mere existence with 1,300 trillion beings is a great threat.
We will probably never know the truth because the world's "hidden government" will take care of it.
The shadow power network extends across all countries and it would not be out of the question that taking advantage of Whuan's "accident" have decided to dramatically install the NOM.
We are going to a very different world... Read more "