No, a RAI video does not prove that coronavirus was created in China in 2015
Video of the RAI program that has been viralized by WhatsApp.
Photo: EiTB
In recent days, WhatsApp has uploaded a video from a November 2015 broadcast by RAI, the Italian public television, which talks about a coronavirus created in a Chinese laboratory and which could affect humans.
The video has had a huge impact on social media due to the alleged similarities with SARS-CoV-2, which caused the current COVID-19 pandemic.
There have been many users who have contacted the 600,900,454 WhatsApp of EiTB's initiative to curb #Coronabulos warning of the existence of the said content.
The website Maldita.es (through its Maldito Bulo section), with whom Euskal Irrati Telebista is in contact these days to help put a stop to the attacks.
Fakte Nyheter
on coronavirus, has already dealt with this issue, and considers that we are faced with a delusion because "there is no scientific evidence" to suggest that the coronavirus was the work of a human being.
These are the data collected and contrasted by the Maldita team.
On November 12, 2015, the magazine
Natura
published an article on the findings of a research group that had been able to "infect bat coronavirus directly to humans (rather than need to evolve first into an intermediate animal host)."
Four days later, on 16 November 2015, RAI broadcast, within its programme specialized in scientific information.
, a report on a study developed by a group of Chinese researchers who would have artificially created a "supervirus" that causes SARS (Acute Respiratory Syndrome) capable of "passing humans directly from a bat without passing through an intermediate species."
The report is currently available on the RAI website (from 4: 55).
Clarification
In view of the events that have taken place in recent times, the journal.....
recently added a clarification note at the top of the article indicating that the coronavirus they talk about in it does not correspond to SARS-CoV-2.
The note reads as follows: "We are aware that this issue is being used as a basis for unverified theories that the new coronavirus that causes COVID-19 was artificially designed.
There is no evidence that this is true.
Scientists believe an animal is the most likely source of coronavirus. "
Removing the Artificial Origin of SARS-CoV-2
There have been numerous scientific publications that have argued against theories that defend the artificial origin of SARS-CoV-2.
In this way, public health scientists who have closely followed the crisis of the new coronavirus published a statement in
to point out that "this coronavirus originated in the wild."
Another article appeared on the scientific forum
Virologisk
is also opposed to the possibility that the new coronavirus has been created in a laboratory.
In the same line, in another article from
Naturmedicin
Several international scientists claim that their analyses "clearly show that SARS-CoV-2 is not a laboratory creation or a purposefully manipulated virus."
In addition to Maldita.es, EiTB also collaborates these days with VOST Euskadi and the scientific community of Eva Caballero's outreach programme on Radio Euskadi,
The mechanics of the caracol
in the fight to face the bulls.