France warns that ibuprofen may aggravate coronavirus infection
When taken at too high doses, they can cause severe, sometimes fatal, liver damage
The French Minister of Health, Olivier Véran, has issued an alert that taking ibuprofen and other anti-inflammatory drugs, such as cortisone, can worsen coronavirus infection, and recommends that symptomatic treatment of fever be exclusively by paracetamol.
Taking anti-inflammatory drugs (ibuprofen, cortisone,...) could be a factor in worsening the infection.
If you have a fever, take paracetamol.
If you are already taking anti-inflammatory drugs or have doubts, consult your doctor. "
Indeed, according to the French daily Le Monde, there may even be major complications, and several doctors have cited cases of young patients with Covid-19 and comorbidities who are in a serious condition after taking ibuprofen for fever.
For this reason, NSAIDs are no longer sold for self-service in French pharmacies since January 15, 2020, following a warning from the National Agency for the Safety of Medicines and Health Products (ANSM).
The same is true for medicines containing paracetamol (Doliprane, Efferalan, etc.)
which, when taken at too high doses, can cause serious, sometimes fatal, liver damage. "
# COVIDE19 | Taking anti-inflammatory drugs (ibuprofen, cortisone,...) could be a contributing factor to worsening infection.
If you have a fever, take paracetamol.
If you are already suffering from anti-inflammatory drugs or if you are in doubt, ask your doctor for advice.
- Olivier Véran (@olivierveran) March 14, 2020
The Spanish Medicines Agency: "With the information available it is difficult to determine whether this association exists"
The Spanish Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products (AEMPS), under the Ministry of Health, has reported this Sunday that there is currently no data to confirm an aggravation of infection by covid-19 with ibuprofen or other non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs.
Therefore, this ensures that there is no reason for patients who are on chronic treatment with these drugs to interrupt them.
"The possible relationship between exacerbation of infections with ibuprofen or ketoprofen is a signal that is being evaluated for the whole European Union in the Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee upon request from the French Medicines Agency (ASNM)," he explains.
This analysis is still underway and is expected to end in May, "but with the information available it is difficult to determine whether this association exists, as ibuprofen is used to treat the initial symptoms of infections and therefore the cause-effect relationship is not easy to establish."
AEMPS recalls that the fact sheets for drugs containing ibuprofen already indicate that this medicine may mask the symptoms of infections, "which could delay your diagnosis and cause you to be diagnosed in more prosperous stages, although this will affect infections in general, not specifically covid-19 infection."
Additionally, guides recommend the use of paracetamol for symptomatic treatment of fever as a first alternative.
However, there is no evidence against the use of ibuprofen in the treatment of minor symptoms.
In both cases, remember, the drugs should be used on a case-by-case basis and at the lowest dose able to control the symptoms.