Trump, Against the CIA: Says to Have Data That Coronavirus Was Created in China
Texas, Vermont, Florida... the states are taking action and Trump raises the pressure
Donald Trump insists that China is the source of the coronavirus pandemic.
On Thursday, the President of the United States contradicted the country's intelligence services by claiming he has evidence that the new Covid was created in a Chinese laboratory in Wuhan.
Hours earlier, the Office of the Director of National Intelligence reported in a statement that there was a "broad scientific consensus" that the virus "was not manufactured by humans or genetically modified."
However, when questioned by reporters in the White House on Thursday about the possibility that the virus might have been created at the Wuhan Institute of Virology, Trump responded "yes," believing it to be so, as it has "trusted" information, although he declined to give more details, saying he had no authorization to do so.
They could have stopped it, they 're a scientifically brilliant nation.
They got away, they might have stopped it, but they didn't, "he assured.
There are many theories.
Let's see where it is and where it comes from, "added Trump, who in turn has asserted that" China is trying to be something more transparent "with the US.
The US president even suggested that they could take economic measures in the form of "customs taxes" against China.
Trump appeared to the press yesterday to present a specific plan of aid for the elderly during the new coronavirus pandemic.
The US Administration has highlighted that over the past month, a billion dollars have been allocated to strengthen networks to help the elderly and the disabled.
At the same time, security measures have been strengthened for the 78,000 residents and staff working in the homes of war veterans, and the delivery of protective equipment with supplies for the next 60 days has been announced in all major centres across the country.
The United States is the nation most affected by coronavirus, with more than one million cases of infection and 63,000 deaths, most of them in the state of New York, the epicentre of the Covid-19 country.