Coronavirus: Government forces masquerades on public transport in England
The masquerades will be mandatory in England for all citizens using public transport, the British Minister of Transport, Grant Shapps.
From 15 June onwards, all travellers in England must wear masks on buses, trains or aircraft.
This new measure will be implemented in England in order to reduce the risk of coronavirus transmission.
The Government is imposing this measure because of concerns about the difficulties of physical distance in public transport.
In addition, as of June 15, businesses with non-essential services will be back in operation.
This will cause more people to use public transport despite the Government's insistence not to do so.
"From Monday, June 15, masquerades will be mandatory in public transport," Shapps said.
He also stressed that not only surgical masks can be used, but also "any kind of home mask that can cover your face."
However, Labour Party member Jim McMahon has criticized this action.
McMahon claims that the government has been too slow to implement protective measures.
McMahon said, "Two months ago, the Mayor of London demanded that masquerades be mandatory in public transport and the Labour Party supported him.
However, the Conservative Party has not acted until now. "
Travellers may receive fines if they refuse to comply with this new measure.
In addition, travellers who do not wear masks may be prohibited from boarding any type of transport.
However, very young children, people with disabilities or respiratory problems will be exempt.
Masquerades are not compulsory in Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.
It should be noted that the use of the mask will only be mandatory in England.
In Scotland, the use of masquerades in public transport is not yet mandatory, although the government may recommend using them in enclosed spaces.
However, Scottish Prime Minister Nicola Sturgeon commented at the press conference that Thursday gave the possibility of making it mandatory as in England.
Sturgeon said that "it will be inevitable" that this measure will not become mandatory at some point as the Scots are not fulfilling the distance.
In Wales, the government has determined that the use of the mask is a personal choice.
In Northern Ireland, however, it is only recommended to use them where social estrangement is not possible.
The measures vary from country to country in the United Kingdom, which could cause confusion for passengers.
That is, a passenger who does not wear a mask in Wales or Scotland must wear one when crossing the border and entering England.