Coronavirus could have its origin in eating snakes, according to virologists
Serpent Krait Chinese.
(External source)
Coronavirus, a disease that has killed at least 17 people, infected hundreds and has the world in turmoil, appears to have its origin in snake ingestion.
The data is in a CNN en Español note, which cites virologists and journalists from The Conversation as sources.
Information indicates that snakes, specifically the Chinese krait type and the Chinese cobra, would have triggered the outbreak of the deadly disease in Wuhan Province.
"We are virologists and magazine editors and we are following this outbreak closely because there are many questions that need to be answered in order to stem the spread of this public health threat," says The Conversation portal..
The first cases were reported in late December 2019 and already exceed 500 infected, some in countries outside China.
The community where the outbreak originated was already isolated, as were two others nearby.
These are Huanggang and Ezhou.
The Krait with many bands (
Crayfish
), also known as the Taiwanese krait or Chinese krait, is a highly venomous species of elapid snake found in much of central and southern China and Southeast Asia, "notes CNN.
He adds that by isolating samples of the virus from patients, scientists in China determined the virus's genetic code and used microscopes to photograph it.
The pathogen responsible for this pandemic is a new coronavirus.
It 's in the same family of viruses as the known one..................
severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus
(SARS-CoV) and the coronavirus of respiratory syndrome
Middle East
MARS
They have killed hundreds of people in the last 17 years.
The World Health Organization (WHO) has named the new coronavirus 2019-nCoV. "
How the pollution came about, according to the publication
The publication of The Conversation indicates that both SARS and MERS are classified as zoonotic viral diseases, meaning that the first infected patients acquired these viruses directly from animals.
This was possible because while in the animal host, the virus had acquired a series of genetic mutations that allowed it to infect and multiply within humans.
Now these viruses can be transmitted from person to person.
Field studies have revealed that the original source of SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV is the bat, and that masked palm civets (a mammal native to Asia and Africa) and camels, respectively, served as intermediate hosts between bats and humans.
He adds that in the case of this 2019 coronavirus outbreak, reports indicate that most of the first group of hospitalized patients were workers or customers in a local wholesale seafood market that also sold processed meat and live consumables, such as poultry, broilers, sheep, pigs, camels, foxes, teats, bamboo rats, hedgehogs and reptiles.
However, since no one has reported finding a coronavirus that infects aquatic animals, it is possible that the coronavirus originated in other animals sold in that market.
The hypothesis that 2019-nCoV jumped from an animal on the market is strongly supported by a new publication in the Journal of Medical Virology.
Scientists performed an analysis and compared the genetic sequences of 2019-nCoV and all other known coronaviruses.
How did the flu spread from animals to humans?
But when researchers performed a more detailed bioinformatics analysis of the 2019-nCoV sequence, they suggested that this coronavirus could be from snakes.
The seafood market in Wuhan Huanan, where the coronavirus outbreak is believed to have begun, is now closed.
From bats to snakes
Researchers used an analysis of the protein codes favored by the new coronavirus and compared it with the protein codes of coronaviruses found in different animal hosts, such as birds, snakes, marmots, hedgehogs, manis, bats, and humans.
Surprisingly, they discovered that protein codes in 2019-nCoV are more similar to those used in snakes.
Snakes often hunt bats in the wild.
Reports indicate that snakes were sold in the local seafood market in Wuhan, increasing the possibility that 2019-nCoV may have jumped from the host species (bats) to snakes and then humans at the beginning of this coronavirus outbreak.
However, how the virus could adapt to both cold-blooded and warm-blooded hosts remains a mystery.
The authors of the report and other researchers must verify the origin of the virus through laboratory experiments.
Looking for the 2019-nCoV sequence in snakes would be the first thing to do.
However, since the outbreak, the shellfish market has been disinfected and closed, making it difficult to trace the animal origin of the new virus.
Here in link to the note: https: / / edition.cnn.com / 2020 / 01 / 22 / health / snakes-wuhan-coronavirus-outbreak-conversation-partner / index.html
Coronavirus is transmitted through the air and primarily infects the upper respiratory tract and gastrointestinal tract of mammals and birds.
Although most coronavirus family members cause only mild flu-like symptoms during infection, SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV can infect the upper and lower respiratory tract and cause serious respiratory diseases and other complications in humans.
This new 2019-nCoV causes symptoms similar to SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV.
People infected with these coronaviruses suffer a severe inflammatory response.
Unfortunately, there is no approved vaccine or antiviral treatment available for coronavirus infection.
A better understanding of the 2019-nCoV life cycle, including the source of the virus, how it is transmitted and how it replicates, is needed to prevent and treat the disease.