The document proving, according to five intelligence services, that China created the Covid-19 in its laboratories
International Scene.
Donald Trump's Secretary of State, Mike Pompeo, recently released an alarming report by the Five Eyes service, an intelligence alliance made up of Australia, Canada, New Zealand, the United Kingdom, and the United States..
According to official research, the entity claims that Covid-19 was created by Chinese scientists in the Wuhan laboratory and reported that Xi Jinping's government had been concealing information about the virus outbreak since December.
"There is an enormous amount of evidence that holds that it was where it began," said Pompeo, referring to the disputed Wuhan laboratory.
In dialog with the news chain
, Trump's Secretary of State said China "did everything possible to ensure that the whole world didn't know in time" about the outbreak that, according to intelligence, would have begun in early December.
It was a classic communist disinformation effort.
Before the American official referred to the parallel investigation, the findings of the 15-page report were published by the Australian newspaper The Saturday Telegraph and the English newspaper The Daily Mail.
The evidence they presented against the Chinese government is as follows:
The deadly denial of transmission between humans, when cases had already been detected in December
The silence or disappearance of the doctors and scientists who warned what was happening
The destruction of vital virus tests in Chinese genomic laboratories
"El blancado de los puestos del dumping de la fauna selvatiche"
The refusal to provide virus samples to international scientists working on a vaccine
The report also questioned the World Health Organization, which did not investigate the allegations made by Taiwan and Hong Kong in mid-December.
There was evidence of human transmission from early December, but it was denied until January 20.
At the same time, the report warned that the National Health Commission of China ordered the destruction of virus deaths on January 3 and issued a "no-publication order" on the subject.
I read too.
Research also argues that the Wuhan Institute of Virology analyzed bat-related viruses in 2013, whose genetic match to Covid-19 is 96%; while two years later, according to the report, Chinese scientists discovered that the disease was transmissible from bats to humans.
Disappearances and Censorship
International agencies placed special emphasis on the disappearance of researcher Huang Yan Ling, who worked in Wuhan's laboratory and was syndicated as Patient Zero.
Nothing is known of her, and her biography was deleted from the laboratory's official website.
I read too.
Also included were the extrajudicial arrests of businessman Fang Bin, lawyer Chen Qiushi and state television journalist Li Zehua.
According to the report, the plan to silence the outbreak was activated on December 31, when the terms "SARS variation," "Wuhan seafood market" and "unknown pneumonia in Wuhan" were removed from all search engines in China.