There is no medical evidence to suggest that taking ibuprofen worsens coronavirus...
A woman checks her medicine cabinet
In English | Fever is one of the first symptoms of COVID-19, the disease caused by coronavirus.
Typically, coughing and difficulty breathing are also experienced.
In mild cases, symptoms can often be treated with common over-the-counter drugs, such as acetaminophen (Tylenol) or non-steroid anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), such as ibuprofen.
But recent reports have questioned whether NSAIDs can cause more harm than benefit when it comes to coronavirus.
The French health ministry warned this month about "severe adverse effects" related to the use of these anti-inflammatory drugs for patients with COVID-19.
And a letter that was published in the medical journal.
Lancet.
suggests that ibuprofen may make people more vulnerable to coronavirus infection.
Many health experts, however, say that there is not enough concrete scientific evidence to confirm these claims.
Use of NSAIDs may indicate other health problems
NSAIDs are commonly used to treat everyday pain and discomfort, as well as chronic ailments such as arthritis.
And its widespread use is one of the reasons why it is difficult to confirm a connection between these drugs and the worsening symptoms of COVID-19, says David Aronoff, physician and director of the Infectious Diseases Division at Vanderbilt University Medical Center's Department of Medicine.
For example, if a patient regularly takes NSAIDs, it may be to help control a more persistent health problem.
At the same time, older adults and people with underlying diseases are more likely to become seriously ill due to COVID-19, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).
It is also possible that patients who have been hospitalized for COVID-19 may have taken NSAIDs to help alleviate their symptoms before seeking professional medical.
"That's why it's easy to notice that people who take NSAID are more likely to be those who get seriously ill with COVID-19.
And drugs are not the reason this is happening, "Aronoff says.
Instead, the use of NSAIDs may indicate that the patient "had become seriously ill" from the beginning.
His conclusion is that there is simply not enough evidence to show that NSAIDs worsen coronavirus infection.
On March 19, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) issued a statement supporting this view.
The agency noted that "it is investigating this matter in depth and will make a public statement when more information is available."
The World Health Organization (WHO) also made a statement on Twitter: "According to current information available, WHO does not recommend not taking ibuprofen."
Consult with an expert before treating any symptoms
"In the current situation," says Aronoff, health experts should not recommend that people stop taking a drug that "regularly takes under the supervision of a health care provider, like a doctor."
That said, it recommends that anyone with fever, cough, and shortness of breath report it to their health care provider.
"If you normally take nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs or acetaminophen to treat the fever, doing the same in this case should not present any problems," he says.
But it is always recommended to check and ask questions and concerns with a doctor or pharmacist.
People with kidney disease or stomach ulcer problems may be advised to take acetaminophen.
On the other hand, if you have hepatitis or liver problems, acetaminophen may not be the best option.
That's why talking to a pharmacist, doctor or nurse can be very useful, "Aronoff says.