The Italian doctor accused of killing patients with COVID-19 to release beds: messages that disappoint him and a disturbing interview
Carlo Mosca was head of the emergency department of the Montichiari hospital.
A doctor accused of deliberately administering a lethal anaesthetic overdose to two patients with covid-19 to release beds from the collapsed hospital during the first wave of the pandemic in Italy has been under investigation for two months and remains in house arrest.
While there have been reports of doctors having been forced to choose which patients to treat based on their chances of recovery in the midst of a health collapse, this is believed to be the first time a physician has been accused of what could amount to euthanasia during the pandemic.
Carlo Mosca, 47, head of emergency services at the Hospital de Montichiari, near Brescia, in northern Italy, has been placed under house arrest on charges of voluntary murder.
He is accused of causing the death of two patients, aged 61 and 80, by prescribing an excessive amount of painkillers and muscle relaxants that are normally used when patients require intubation.
The deaths occurred in March, when the coronavirus ravaged northern Italy.
Research into the number of deaths in the hospital began after patients' condition suddenly and inexplicably worsened.
According to investigators, several hospital workers had commented among them on the excessive use of succinylcholine and propofol, the "treatment" used by Mosca.
These drugs, with anaesthetic effect, are used in patients who need to be intubated.
Its disproportionate use can cause respiratory failure, causing cardiac arrest and death.
The messages accusing him
Among the evidence collected was WhatsApp messages exchanged between two hospital nurses.
"I can't accept killing patients just because they want to release beds," said one.
"I agree, he's crazy," another replied.
In another conversation, a nurse allegedly revealed that she had to stop the chief physician "to limit the number of deaths."
Carlo Mosca was head of the emergency department of the Montichiari hospital.
One of the nurses also took a picture of the drugs used by Fly and sent it back by WhatApp to a colleague.
He then asked if Mosca had ever ordered him to administer those drugs: "I'm sorry but I don't know what to think because it seems normal for everyone here," he wrote.
The colleague replied that Mosca had asked him to administer these drugs to several patients, but that he had refused, recommending to the doctor his hospitalization as "there were still beds available."
Three bodies were exhumed for autopsy and toxicological testing; in at least one case, suspiciously high levels of sedants were reported.
Police investigators said the substances had not been included in patient records, as was the case for those who actually needed them before intubation.
They said the doctor could also be accused of falsifying official documents.
Police said the administration of the drugs had caused a "lethal respiratory depression" in the patients.
The doctor's arrest, which took place on January 25, was necessary to prevent him from repeating the crime or interfering with the evidence.
His behavior was aggravated by having repeatedly asked, before administering the substances, that he be left alone with patients who would soon die.
In addition, upon learning of the investigation, he urged his collaborators to declare it false.
The doctor acted "not due to an intolerable lightness, imprudence or inexcusable inexperience" but "with full awareness of the budgets of his conduct" and with "the will to kill," said Judge Angela Corvi.
Cases investigated
Carlo Mosca is accused of causing the death of two patients: Natale Bassi and Angelo Paletti, who died between 20 and 22 March.
In the first case, according to investigators, the victim was not in as severe a condition as dying within five minutes, as occurred after Mosca's intervention.
However, on the morning of the 20th, Bassi had a respiratory crisis.
Dr. Mosca asked the nurses to bring him succinylcholine and "leave him alone in the room with the victim."
Bassi died shortly afterwards and another doctor wrote in the clinical history that the death was caused by "a sudden cardiac arrest."
This doctor was even surprised by the outcome and said that "under normal conditions he would have asked for a diagnostic test."
A patient at a UCI hospital in Lodi, northern Italy, in November 2020 (REUTERS / Flavio Lo Scalzo)
As for the second victim, the autopsy also revealed that a "severe respiratory depression" would have been caused by the same drugs used with Bassi.
Investigators claim that Mosca also falsified the medical history to show conditions much worse than those in which the victim was found.
In fact, the emergency service report showed that "Mr. Paletti was conscious," spoke, and could not qualify as "a dying patient."
For researchers, if the doctor had not administered these drugs, the patients would probably not have died.
Another "three dead abnormal" are being investigated.
Mosca denies the charges.
I still hear the oxygen whistle
In the midst of the accusations, an interview was relayed by Mosca last June.
in which he recalled the moments of health collapse in March, when researchers believe he killed both patients.
In that newspaper interview
Corriere della Sera.
, Mosca said that every day was a battle "to try to save as many lives as possible" and recalled the exhaustion of those days: "I often called home after 9: 30 p.m.
Sometimes he didn't even call.
The head was always put in the hospital, in the patients, in what had to be done. "
Mosca also claimed that those weeks of fighting against covid-19 had marked him so much that he kept listening to the oxygen whistle of patients in intensive care: "I still hear it, even now that everything is turned off."
HAS ADOPTED THIS DECISION: