Li-Meng Yan: The Chinese virologist who claims that the coronavirus was created in a laboratory
So Paty Christmas was right?
... The coronavirus pandemic came to give a 180-degree turn to life as we have known it for many years, because until March of this year (in the case of Mexico) no one imagined that one day the blankets and antibacterial gel would become necessary tools when going out on the street to buy the pantry or perform other activities that barely began to resume a couple of months ago.
And look, because here it's a conspiracy theory.
Coronavirus, being a new disease, has put the entire scientific community to work hard to know its mode of transmission, its aftermath, and even to find a cure for the virus.
But also, COVID-19 brought thousands of conspiracy theories to light.
One of the most famous is that the coronavirus was created by the Chinese government as a biological weapon.
Li-Meng Yan has awakened COVID-19 conspiracy theories
We have already heard several 'celebrities' draw their theories about the birth of coronavirus.
Things that one puts into question because many of them are not the brightest people the world has known (without offence).
But what happens when she is a virologist who claims that COVID-19 was actually created in a Chinese lab and was almost planned to affect humans?
We put this issue on the table thanks to recent (rather conspiratorial) statements made by Li-Meng Yan, a virologist of Chinese origin who claims to have been forced to take refuge in the United States after discovering that COVID-19 virus did not originate in a Wuhan market as Chinese authorities reported, and that they have omitted information about it.
He started an investigation in late 2019
In an interview Li-Meng Yan had on the Spanish program
Horizon.
, the virologist related the origins of the disease and how she began a search for the truth behind what the same Chinese government said:
I worked in the WHO reference laboratory for H5 influenza and also later for SARS-CoV-2.
It is one of the highest-level laboratories, with a group of virologists expert in this field. "
mentioned.
According to Li-Meng, his supervisor asked him to investigate what was happening in Wuhan with the new pneumonia, something he did through acquaintances there.
They indicated that the number of coronavirus patients was higher than the government mentioned, and that the disease was already transmitted between humans.
In Wuhan, virologists had already isolated the virus and obtained the sequence of the new coronavirus.
That didn't happen as they mentioned in mid-January... they also detected some infected people not only in the city seafood market, but also in groups of families "
, detailed the virologist during the interview, adding that she told her superiors about the situation and they preferred to keep quiet about it.
Poon (his adviser) insisted that I do not cross the red line, and that if I did, I would get into trouble.
They wanted him to keep his mouth shut.
There was no response from the WHO or the government and foreign experts in China are not allowed "
, said the woman, stating that in April she decided to go to the United States when the government already knew she had a lot of information about coronavirus.
Li-Meng Yan had to flee to the United States because of the information he possessed.
In April, I was targeted and realized that it would be better to flee to the United States because I was in danger.
I thought about how I could spread that all foreign countries didn 't know the truth because China was trying to trick people by hiding the matter.
I thought it was necessary to raise my voice, because I thought it was the only way to reveal the truth to the world. "
, mentioned Li-Meng Yan in the talk.
On the other hand, the virologist indicated that she is certain that SARS-CoV-2 is not of natural origin, as it began to be created a couple of years ago and based on the structure of a coronavirus already found in bats, which was modified in a military laboratory in China with the intention of attacking humans directly.
They wanted to believe that he had been created in nature and jumping to a human who contracted the infection.
That may happen, but I tell people that since January so far, a synthetic route has been followed using a bat coronavirus as a template to manipulate it. "
, the woman said.
I came to those tests by logic and analyzed the genome in my second report... The supposed natural origin is not supported.
However, from the perspective of human design, between 2017 and 2018, there were already publications from a Chinese military lab. "
, detailed Yan regarding his theory that COVID-19 is a Frankenstein-like virus, released on purpose by the authorities.
The coronavirus is a biological weapon created to affect humans.
It is a novel and unrestricted biological weapon.
This type of weapon has features for large-scale killing.
It spreads through the air and the respiratory system and human transmission is very important... SARS-CoV-2, it's a perfect combination.
The situation gets worse because asymptomatic people expand it by infecting people around it and paralyzing the world. "
, said Li-Meng Yan.
The virologist indicated that the Chinese government threatened her with death, so she will tell the world the truth before anything happens to her:
As a doctor and scientist, I have made this decision and will disseminate the information before I am killed.
I cannot allow them to do more damage to global health.
I leaked it from the beginning with first-hand information and people need to know the truth.
They won't scare me. "
Li-Meng Yan's statements have divided the opinion of the scientific community, as some experts believe that the expert must show evidence of what he is talking about.
However, some people believe that there is something true in the words of the virologist and probably conspiracy theories are not as crazy as many think.
With information from: Diario AS