What do we know about ivermectin, the drug that might end the pandemic?
ivermectin is used to treat parasites in humans and animals - Photo: Archive / EL UNIVERSAL
Currently, ivermectin is used to treat some parasitic worms such as intestinal strongidiasis and oncocercosis in humans.
In the case of animals, this drug is used in the prevention of Dirofilaria immitis in small animals and in the treatment of certain internal and external parasites.
However, several clinical studies have emerged over the past few months suggesting that this drug might be useful in the treatment of covid-19, although WHO and PAHO have not yet approved its use in the treatment of this disease, this could change in the near future.
According to an analysis of at least 18 clinical trials on the use of ivermectin in the treatment of covid-19, a group of experts has found a significant reduction in mortality, recovery time, and late viral elimination time.
In addition, the study notes that the risk of contracting the disease is significantly reduced through regular use of ivermectin.
Therefore, this research points out that ivermectin, a drug used for the treatment of parasites, could be an effective treatment for this disease.
In Mexico, the IMSS has described ivermectin as a drug "very noble, economical, safe and still being studied for its inhibitory effects on viral proteins, showing increasingly better results in clinical practice and studies" and also indicates that "there is evidence documenting the positive effects of ivermectin both in the prophylaxis of covid-19 and in early ambulatory treatment of covid-19."
Ivermectin: The Solution to the Covid-19 Pandemic?
According to a group of scientists who came together to form a group called the COVID-19 First Line Critical Care Alliance, the use of ivermectin to treat COVID-19 could end the pandemic that has claimed millions of deaths worldwide.
To date, this study is the most extensive in terms of the efficacy of this antiparasitic drug in the treatment of the disease caused by the SARS-CoV-2 virus.
This new research emerged from the analysis of data from several clinical studies, in vitro, in animals and in the real world.
During the review, a group of scientists and doctors analyzed information published in studies, meta-analysis manuscripts and epidemiological analyses of regions where ivermectin was distributed for the treatment of covid-19.
In a press release, Dr. Pierre Kory explained that the expert group was tasked with carrying out "the work that the health authorities did not do, we carried out the most comprehensive review of the available data on ivermectin" and added that they applied the highest standards "to qualify the revised data before concluding that ivermectin can end this pandemic."
The research carried out by the team led by Dr. Kory focused on the analysis of 27 controlled clinical trials available as of January 2021, of which 15 were randomized controlled trials, the preferred method by the World Health Organization (WHO), the EU National Institutes of Health and the European Medicines Agency.
Is ivermectin effective in treating covid-19?
According to information published by this expert group, this drug significantly reduces the risk of death, recovery time, and elimination of viral load in patients.
This data has been published by expert groups in the United Kingdom, Italy, Spain and Japan.
During the investigation, experts found that several studies noted that "ivermectin significantly reduces the risk of developing covid-19 when used frequently."
According to the publication, countries such as South Africa, Zimbabwe, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Mexico and India have approved the use of ivermectin by doctors in the treatment of covid-19.
The results of these treatments have shown that ivermectin distribution campaigns led to "rapid declines in morbidity and mortality throughout the population."
On the other hand, Dr. Paul E. Marik stated that this research demonstrates that "there is no doubt that ivermectin is highly effective as prophylaxis and safe treatment against covid-19."
You can also read: What is ivermectin and why is it studied against covid-19?
What is ivermectin?
According to the FDA, ivermectin is a drug that has been approved for the treatment of strongilidiasis and intestinal oncocercosis, two diseases caused by parasitic worms.
In addition, this drug is also used in the treatment of lice and rosacea.
Although a group of experts points out that this drug would be useful and safe in the treatment of covid-19, the FDA still does not authorize its use in the treatment of this new disease and points out that it could have fatal consequences for patients, especially if self-medicated with ivermectin special for animals.