Coronavirus immunity could last decades, says a new study
There is much speculation about immunity to coronavirus.
After taking the Vacina, how long can we rest?
Will a new dose be required?
According to a new study, which revealed the most promising responses we have had so far, that immunity can last years, even decades.
Eight months after infection, most people recovered Covid-19 still has enough cells immunological systems to protect themselves from the virus and prevent disease, according to research.
A slow rate of short-term decline suggests that these cells may persist in the body for a long time.
The search, published online by the Institute of Immunology La Jolle, has not yet been peer reviewed or published in a scientific journal.
Still, it is the most comprehensive and far-reaching study of the immune memory of coronavirus.
The findings are likely to be a relief to experts concerned that immunity to the virus may be short-lived and that vaccines must be administered several times to actually control the pandemic.
The study also fits in with another recent discovery: that survivors of SARS, a disease caused by another coronavirus, still carry certain important immune cells, even after 17 years of recovery.
Other laboratories have found evidence consistent with the new study.
Researchers at the University of Washington had previously shown that certain "memory" cells produced after infection persist for at least three months in the body.
Coronavirus immunity can last for decades, says one study.
Image: Vitalii Matokha / Shutterstock
A study published last week also found that Covid-19 recoveries have powerful and protective killer immune cells, even when antibodies are not detectable.
Several immunologists understand this as the conventional response, which usually occurs after any infection.
However, they were enthusiastic about the news.
In the new study, a small number of people did not have lasting immunity, perhaps because of the low viral load to which they were exposed.
According to University of Toronto immunologist Jennifer Gommerman, the vaccine can overcome this individual variability.
"This will help focus the response, so it doesn't get the same kind of heterogeneity you would see in an infected population," he said.
In recent months, reports of reduced antibody levels have raised concerns that immunity may disappear after a while, leaving people vulnerable to the virus again.
However, many immunologists have noted that the drop in antibody levels is natural.
In addition, antibodies are only part of the entire immune system.
As necessary to prevent a second infection, immune cells that "remember" viruses most often are responsible for preventing serious diseases.
It is very common for people to be reinfected by a specific pathogen, but the immune system recognizes the invader and quickly ends the infection.
Coronavirus takes time to cause damage, which gives the immune system a time to react.
Alessandro Sette, immunologist at the Institute of Immunology in La Jolla and co-author of the study, along with his colleagues, recruited 185 men and women who recovered from Covid-19, aged between 19 and 81.
Most had only mild symptoms and provided only one blood sample, but 38 provided several samples for many months.
Reinfection cases are still rare.
Image: CI Photos / Shutterstock
The team tracked four components of the immune system: antibodies, B cells (which produce more antibodies if necessary), and two types of T cells (which kill infected cells).
The idea was to build an image of the immune response over time, observing its variables.
They found that the antibodies were durable, with modest reductions of six to eight months after infection, although there was a 200-fold difference in the levels of each participant.
T cells had a slow and light decomposition, while B cells increased in number, an unexpected finding that researchers cannot yet explain.
The study is the first to map the immune response to a virus in such detail.
Concerns about the timing of immunity are mainly due to research into viruses that cause common cold.
One, led by Jeffrey Shaman of Columbia University, and frequently cited, suggests a rapid decrease in immunity and re-infections that can occur.
within a year.
It is difficult to predict exactly how long immunity lasts, because it is not yet clear what levels of various immune cells are needed to protect against the virus.
So far, studies suggest that those recovered can be protected even with a small number of B and T cells.
Study participants have been producing large numbers of these cells, at least for the time being, and there is no indication that these numbers are suddenly decreasing.
The main factor of coronavirus reinfection in common cold is viral genetic changes, which may not be as worrying in the case of Covid-19.