Researchers say hydroxychloroquine is safe for patients with Covid-19
Several clinical trials are investigating the effectiveness of hydroxychloroquine to combat coronavirus
Several clinical trials are currently testing the active substance hydroxychloroquine to determine whether it can be effective in treating patients with Covid-19.
Among them is what is being done by Oriol Mitjà, the infectologist at the German Trias i Pujol University Hospital who is testing this molecule along with an antiviral, Darunavir.
However, it should be noted that, today, there are discrepancies between researchers on the effectiveness that hydroxychloroquine can have in treating not only coronavirus but any virus.
What does seem clear is that its administration is safe.
This has been determined by a study in which some 300 scientists from around the world have participated and which has targeted hydroxychloroquine, a molecule that is used to treat patients with malaria, lupus and rheumatoid arthritis.
We have the approval and a protocol to look at its effectiveness as well. "
After analysis, with the help of
, the clinical history of 130,000 patients who have previously taken this active ingredient, researchers have concluded that there is "no reason" based on the data collected "to think that safety is different" in patients affected by Covid-19, he explains.
The Vanguard
Daniel Prieto-Alhambra, Professor of Pharmacoepidemiology at the University of Oxford and one of the research leaders.
We have approval and a protocol to look at its effectiveness as well, but we still don't have enough data on people with coronaviruses treated.
Maybe in a month or two, "he adds.
The study "uses existing data (computerized and anonymized clinical history, basically) to look at what side effects people who have taken hydroxychloroquine have had in the past," relates Prieto-Alhambra.
So far, researchers have analyzed the data of 130,000 people.
"The reason to study this drug is that partners around the world are effectively using it to treat coronavirus," he adds.
Prieto-Alhambra has admitted, in statements made this morning to
, that, effectively, "hydroxychloroquine has important side effects in patients with malaria, lupus or rheumatoid arthritis that take it for life," but that "administration for short exposure," as would be the case for coronavirus patients, have not detected "worrying side effects."
"The results are quite good," the scientist stressed, who has detailed that the patients analysed come from four countries: Germany, the United Kingdom, the United States and South Korea.
A few days ago, Laboratorios Rubió, a Spanish pharmaceutical company that manufactures and markets Dolquine, a hydroxychloroquine-based drug that is being used to treat Covid-19, announced that it has the ability to triple its production to meet the needs of coronavirus.
The laboratory reported in a statement that was made available to the Spanish Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products (AMPs) in order to be able to supply the drug according to its current production capacities.
Aemps responded by writing that "the efficacy of chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine is being evaluated in a number of clinical trials whose results have not yet been published."
In this sense, he stressed that "the level of evidence is still low" based on "preclinical and security data in other indications."
He acknowledged, however, that "its use has generated expectations so that various authorities (Italy, France, China or Spain) have included chloroquine or hydroxychloroquine as one of the alternatives to treatment in patients with Covid-19 infection."
It also indicated, at the same time, that given the "limited stock" of these drugs and the growing demand in a wide variety of Covid-19-related situations, it was necessary to control reservations and ordered the headlines not to put more hydroxychloroquine / chloroquine "on the channel until further notice."
Rubio Laboratories claims to have sufficient product to ensure supply to chronic patients (people with acute or chronic rheumatoid arthritis and lupus) for whom the product is appropriate.
It also ensures the ability to triple production "in response to the needs arising from the prophylactic use of Dolquine in coronavirus infections and in patients infected in combination with other treatments."
Researchers suspect that hydroxychloroquine could not only help treat patients infected with coronavirus, but could also be used in a prophylactic manner, protecting people who had taken it from possible infection.
The same US President, Donald Trump, has publicly announced, with no studies yet available to support it, that the combination of hydroxychloroquine and azithromycin can cause "a radical change" in addressing this pathogen.
Trump's announcement led many people to want to take hydroxychloroquine in a prophylactic manner, potentially putting their health at risk.
In this sense, a man in Arizona died a few days ago after ingesting chloroquine phosphate in the belief that it would protect him from Covid-19 infection.
His wife also took this substance and had to be admitted to the hospital.
The toxic ingredient they consumed was not chloroquine, which is used, among other diseases, as a drug for malaria.
In fact, what they ingested was a product to attack parasites in aquarium fish.
The woman later confessed to NBC that they were watching television when President Trump alluded to the potential benefits of the drug to combat coronavirus.
The Oxford University-led study has not only investigated the feasibility of safe administration of hydroxychloroquine to patients affected by Covid-19, but also attempts to predict which people are more likely to end up in hospital for disease victims and which of them will need treatment at ICU.
"What we want is to give clinicians tools to make well-informed decisions about who can walk with the elevator and who should stay in the observation hospital," says Prieto-Alhambra.
They are also comparing the number of people entered in previous years by influenza with the number of patients currently affected by coronavirus.
They want to determine empirically whether, as it seems, Covid-19 is much more dangerous than a flu.
We also want to look at the characteristics of infected patients.
There seem to be clear differences for example in age, "he adds.
To process the vast amount of data that these 300 scientists around the world are analyzing, the help of supercomputers from different parts of the planet has been needed.
"Some are owned by the participating entities, but Amazon AWS has also allowed us to use very powerful computers for free for this study," concludes Prieto-Alhambra.