Frank Cuesta, on the origin of coronavirus: "In August something was already going on."
Frank Cuesta came back to
It's Federico's morning
, on esRadio, to announce the imminent premiere of new
, his documentary program on Dmax, this Sunday at 9: 30 p.m.
Frank spoke with Federico Jiménez Losantos and Isabel González on the most diverse topics, including the great influence of the mythical documentaries of
Man and the Earth
by Felix Rodriguez de la Fuente.
In fact, new deliveries are being subtitled
Felix's Legacy.
But in addition to that, Frank Cuesta addressed the panic over the current coronavirus epidemic in Spain.
And it claims, in fact, to have witnessed its beginnings in Thailand a few months ago, in the middle of 2019, and that it has been ringing unchecked ever since.
This can be for pangolin for a reason.
We know that an average of fifty to one hundred pangolins are caught every week that they leave for Vietnam or China, "he said as a result of his usual activity fighting illegal animal trafficking.
The second week of August was over from pillar, and also from bat and shrew.
We haven't found a shipment, which is rare.
I'm talking to you about August, "he said about the first clues that something was happening.
Frank asked on esRadio "How can you pick up a hundred pangolins a week and get out of the same areas and then stop doing it??.?....
So, according to Frank Cuesta, "by August something was going on there..." but China did not announce the coronavirus until much, much later, suggesting that it was detected there but no one was warned.
As Federico Jiménez Losantos pointed out, "there was a doctor who did denounce him and put him in jail, and then took him out to die."
The problem is that both the bat and the shrew or the pangolin itself are also used "as before monkeys, as guinea pigs.
To experiment. "
And the fact that that animal is used for everything literally: "Pangolin is used up to the scales to put them on wounds... and that they eat it almost raw, put it a few seconds in water and already.
It's kind of sushi.
He's the most punished mammal in the world, they've finished him. "
Frank de la Jungla denounced it in
It's Federico's morning
that "the problem is not the pangolin, it is that they ate it and did not say what was going on."
The issue has been burning for so many months that Frank believes that there, in Thailand, almost everyone has actually been there in August, September or October 2019, pointing out that the epidemic has actually been out of control for several months.
It could have happened to him but also to his family, who have all been sick.
In August, through there, we have all passed the virus.
We've passed the cataract.
We all took it at home.
And now, you start walking back and thinking about what has been going on since September, October and nobody then realized. "
The Rose Chronicle: With Frank Cuesta.