Ozone does not work against coronavirus
This entry is very important for us.
And it has nothing to do with a commercial issue.
We can have much more professional ozone devices than we see in workshops and companies offering this service.
The problem is that ozone does not eliminate coronavirus in the environment or on surfaces.
Or at least, so far, it has not been shown to do so.
Ozone is a good disinfectant, especially for water, but cannot disinfect an environment for a stay or vehicle against coronavirus.
In order for a product to be effective, it must meet the UNE-EN 14476 standard.
This standard marks a number of studies that need to be carried out on different viruses especially resistant to disinfection.
The ozone devices that are being used, powered by air, will not be able to reach 1% of the concentration needed to disinfect the environment.
100 times less than the amount needed.
It's a lot...
The government of Spain responded to a question asked by ANECPLA (National Association of Environmental Health Enterprises) with the following words:
With regard to the question that you are asking us, since ozone has not yet been assessed at European level or at national level during the transitional period, we cannot answer this question.
Ozone may only be used when it has been notified in accordance with the Second Transitional Provision of Royal Decree 1054 / 2002 of 11 October, which regulates the evaluation process for the registration, authorisation and marketing of biocidal products and under the responsibility of the manufacturer or trader. '
This is a serious public health problem.
A problem we 're seeing with other products that are being applied to businesses, neighborhood communities, schools, hotels and homes.
All disinfection work must be certified with an official health document.
This extends to all farmers who in good faith are trying to help in a completely selfless way and are applying products that are not effective against viruses.
Or what about those tunnels that go far over cars when they enter certain municipalities.
Or disinfection with ultra violet rays that is being carried out in hospital rooms in Zaragoza and that cannot disinfect the environment of virus.
It is possible that all these actions are being carried out with real ignorance of what is being done and with good intention.
The Ministry of Health has a list of products admitted for this disinfection against COVID-19.
Among them are domestic mildew marks that are perfectly valid for disinfecting against coronavirus.
Chlorine is a major disinfectant, although it has the problem of being toxic, discolouring and corrosive.
If you have to disinfect a vehicle or a delicate surface, you cannot easily use it.
For that there are other products like hydrogen peroxide that we use and that are listed by the Ministry of Health:
OX-VIRIN - Hydrogen peroxide 25%, peracetic acid 5%, acetic acid 8% - For use by professional staff by nebulization or contact disinfection.
OX-VIRIN Presto use - Hydrogen peroxide 0.2%, peracetic acid 0.05% - For use by the general public in contact disinfection.