Luc Montaigner, Nobel Prize in Medicine, the virus was created in a laboratory.
http: / / spanews24h.com / luc-montagnier... n-adn-del-hiv /
As the world faces the Covid-19 pandemic and scientists try to find a vaccine to eradicate the virus, Luc Montagnier, a French virologist and 2008 Nobel Prize winner in medicine after the discovery of AIDS, has just presented a controversial hypothesis about the origin of SARS-CoV-2.
Interviewed by the site.
Why doctor?
This Thursday, April 16, the French professor expressed doubts about the origin of the Covid-19.
According to him, the emergence of the virus in a wildlife market in Wuhan is "
a beautiful legend
'y'
not possible
He says that the Covid-19 "..........
comes out of a Wuhan laboratory
Luc Montagnier goes on to say that "
The Wuhan city lab has specialized in these coronaviruses since the early 2000s.
and possesses
experience in this area
In the face of his comments, his interlocutor asks if the traces of HIV found in the coronavirus are not simply a natural mutation of the virus in the body of an AIDS patient. Luc Montagnier responds negatively and explains:
To insert a sequence of HIV into the genome you need molecular tools, it 's not the patient who' s going to do it, it 's the lab.
Some say one thing and others, in the end I believe more JL than others, total...
We're eaten by the Chinese...........
Everyone knows that, except the newspapers and the fabrics that are not yet authorized to report to the people, like the downed Iranian plane and like any news so important that they tell you that you have it on the Internet two weeks earlier, and people are still watching the official disinformation media.
I don't know if I got it right.
Are there supposed to be AIDS virus genes in the coronarius?
And the fat Ferreras saying that trump had invented the googling news... and now it turns out that the whole Nobel Prize has said so...
Other:
Originally written by Pauguiller I don't know if I understood it well.
Are there supposed to be AIDS virus genes in the coronarius?
This, then if you pick up the coronavirus, you automatically pick up the hiv?
Fuck to see if it's going to be an invention by a wuhan scientist who kills himself with hentai straw, and wants to fuck everyone who fucks.
It was easy to blame a pangolin.
But you didn't.
He has already presented very controversial theories about the origin and transmission of AIDS and, in 2017, 100 academics asked the College of Physicians to sanction him after his anti-AIDS positions.
Everyone suspects it because Wuhan's lab is 200 meters from the market where they say it all originated.
What I think is that it wasn 't intentionally propagated, if not that a researcher got infected by mistake and walked out of the lab with the bug.
It may even be eating or buying at the market where it is supposed to be zone 0.
But I guess it's impossible to prove that it was made by man and that it was made in Wuhan's lab.
Other:
Originally written by zirick The easy thing was to charge a pangolin.
But he didn't. But how is he going to get viruses?
I adopted.
Other:
Originally Written by Magikarp sano This, then if you catch coronavirus, do you automatically catch Hiv?
Fuck to see if it's going to be an invention by a wuhan scientist who kills himself with hentai straw, and wants to fuck everyone who fucks.
No, it would be just a sequence, not the whole virus.
But even that, I'm not sure if I understood it well.
The first... to rule out that it is a hoax... to whom this man votes?
That guy's an eminent virologist... no kidding.
traces of HIV found in the coronavirus Look uncle, I already quit.
As a matter of fact, he has to hide under the ground.
Other:
Originally Written by Mongodemonguer Everyone suspects it because Wuhan's lab is 200 meters from the market where they say it all originated.
What I think is that it wasn 't intentionally propagated, if not that a researcher got infected by mistake and walked out of the lab with the bug.
It may even be eating or buying at the market where it is supposed to be zone 0.
I also believe in the possibility that the animals from the experiments instead of being incinerated will end up being sold on the market.
There's supposed to be a detainee for that.
on that website I don't find a Who Are We?
or similar, no one seems to direct / sign anything... reliability 0 therefore.
Other:
Originally written by zirick The easy thing was to charge a pangolin.
Who thinks this beautiful thing can hurt us?
Naaadi
Other:
Originally written by Castigator That guy is an eminence in virology.. little joke.
Nobel Prize.
Falacia ad Verecindiam.
The first of maguferies.
They dress her like lambs.
What gives you more confidence, a group of researchers working in a lab day and night sequencing the virus genome, or an 87-year-old Nobel who 20 years ago didn 't step on a lab and stare out of the bar?
Let's fuck off.
Other:
Originally Written by Nostradonuts Who thinks this beautiful thing can hurt us?
Naaadi
More than the cup
Other:
Originally written by sipotons Some say one thing and others, at the end I believe more JL than others, total...
In my view, the difference is that at first no one knew anything and was very afraid to express a minimally controversial opinion partly because of political correctness and partly because of possible (mainly economic) reprisals from China, which in fact launched a media offensive in the West to the cry of "don't be racist."
Now that fear of public opinion has been lost because people have left political correctness aside in the face of tragedy and the obvious lie that we have eaten little in the count of the dead and are asking for clear answers.
In addition, a little more is known about the virus, both over time and because the information no longer comes from its origin and can be studied directly.
Other:
Originally written by zirick The easy thing was to charge a pangolin.
I'm sorry I suspected you, baby.
From every city in the world, it turns out that the virus appears in a Chinese city where there 's a virology lab.
A lab that had had complaints about its safety in the past.
But what makes me think they got away with it is mostly that they started building hospitals in minute one.
I mean, you don 't do that until you get a good look at the lethality and rate of infection of the virus, because you don' t know its gravity; what 's happened in the West basically.
Unless you knew it from the very beginning... because you had it more than analyzed.
Come on, white and in the bottle.
Montagnier's been saying shit for years.
Foropangolinas
If it is discovered, the creator must be annihilated.
Isn't this also the one that defended homeopathy?
And this?
The Nobel Prize laureate Luc Montagnier takes homeopathy seriously.
https: / / www.elsevier.es / es-revista-r... 88852611700947 Nobel Luc Montagnier: "The scientific basis of homeopathy is ignored because it silences what disturbs the economy" https: / / www.googlees / amp / s / amp.20mi... this-economy /
Leave conspiracy behind.
The scientific community is clear about this. That man is already poking around for a lot of fiction.