Coronavirus: TimoAIDS redux: Now they come out with the "coronavirus" already circulating in France in November 2019
More than 300 "cases of Covid" in France in... November 2019!
The coronavirus was already circulating in Europe in November 2019, reveals a study
Post that if you review samples from 2009, 1999 and up to 1979
also
would give "positive" to "Covid 2019."
At TimoAIDS we 're tired of seeing such things.
impossibilities
, "like
"infected with HIV"
in the USA or Europe in the 1950s and 1960s:
Go to the '50s and' 60s.
They will find "HIV +" in the UK and the US in those years.
Where did they "get infected"?
Holy Spirit?
According to the incredible orthodoxy of TimoAIDS, someone must have "passed you the AIDS virus."
Why wasn't there an "AIDS explosion" while the Beatles were performing "The Yellow Submarine" and the Hippies were doing drugs in Woodstock?
If there was "HIV +" in the US or Europe in the 1950s and 1960s, why was there no "AIDS epidemic" in JFK and the Beatles' time?
According to the official narrative, it is inexplicable that the "HIV / AIDS pandemic" would not have begun in the 1960s in Europe-US.
Then "HIV was circulating"!
Where did AIDS come from those years?
If there was "SARS Cov 2" in France in November 2019, why didn't the "Covid epidemic" start at Christmas 2019?
Remember, it's a super-contagious "virus," and at Christmas 2019 we were so crazy unconscious that we went out on the street without a mask, kissed loved ones, got into mass events that were tight...
A "Study" in Japan
Remember the famous fecal water sample from Barcelona in March 2019 that gave "coronavirus positive"?
aguas fecales barcelona covid March 2019 - Search with Google
In the end, they are going to integrate this anomaly into the official narrative, which at the time the Covidianists said was "a mistake" and "impossible."
From March to November and from France to Barcelona there is already only one jump.
I 've been saying for a year that if you looked at preserved samples of - say - 1999 or 1979 you would find
also
"SARS Cov 2 reactivity" and "Covid 2019."
The same thing happened with TimoAIDS.
In the 1980s, we were told that he had entered the United States about 1980.
A deadly African virus that killed in 10 months.
The CDC, which are eagles, detected it in 1981.
Timothy 3.
The amazing story of how "HIV" took 10.5 MONTHS to cause AIDS in 1984.
As the years passed, the "virus" took longer and longer to "kill."
As Peter Duesberg said, every year the "incubation period" of "HIV" increased by one year.
"HIV" did not (and does not) do what was expected of him.
They then delayed the entry of HIV into the US until 1976, at the US Bicentennial celebrations.
In 1968.
Of course I did.
The poor "HIV" already took more than 10 years to "incubate."
Ah, and with the appearance of the "HIV test" in 1985, something unusual also appeared to those of us who were exposed to the previous propaganda bombing:
asymptomatic carriers
which until then was the "HIV Killer."
The continuous delay of the entry of the "terrible virus" is identical in TimoAIDS and CoronaTimo.
Because Coronatimo is a revival of TimoAIDS, as I explained:
Ensayo | IGLESIA COVIDiana DEL 10 DÍA como NEORELIGION ESTATAL junto a anteriores cultos (Calentology, Lilas, LGTBismo) y REVIVAL FE MUERTA "HIV / AIDS"
And ADDITION: TimoAIDS led to AZT.
The Coronatimo has led to the "Vacunas" (which are not such).
It agrees that the "side effects" of AZT are indistinguishable from AIDS, as the manufacturers confessed in the prospectus.
It also agrees that "the covid" - they say now - can cause autoimmune reactions that - oh casually - some have been for months fearing that mRNA "vaccines" can cause as well.
And if, in November, I put on the bixo and I put it on all of us, why shouldn 't we put it on now?
It is the Swedish method, and they seem to be doing well.
And with the contagion that is supposed to happen, without knowing its existence and without any precautions, how can we not all fall sick?
It began operating in November 2019.
By the 5th week of 2020, there were already an abnormally high number of hospitalised patients with respiratory and pneumonic diseases.
Among those who came from the Wuhan Military Olympics were many sick people.
Spaniards became ill at the Wuhan military games and on their return with symptoms compatible with Covid-19.
Lord Vader said: And with the contagion that is supposed to him, without knowing of his existence and without any precautions, how can we not all fall sick?
See below:
Why have the "HIV +" of 2021 been "infected with AIDS" if we have been carrying "safe sex" propaganda since 1985?
There are 30 teenagers who since their birth have been exposed to the inflammatory propaganda as NOT "infect" with "HIV."
The saint of what have they been "infected" then?
Lord Vader said: And with the contagion that is supposed to him, without knowing of his existence and without any precautions, how can we not all fall sick?
Iker Jiménez was the first to voice the alarm in Spain in mid-February 2020.
When Simon said there might be a case or two, Iker was already saying there were hospital floors where there were dozens of people coughing.
She hid in order not to suspend the demonstration of Madame de Galapagos.
Goal of the Lord.
The focus of Castellón-Burriana brought him to an Ifema-style fair in France.
What happens is that we know four cats by direct testimony, for some reason this doesn't come out on TV, ergo doesn't exist.
Then we are called cospiranoics, negationists, tereverists, rare, etc.
They've given us more than enough reason to suspect.
Everybody lies and stuff.
AYN RANDiano2 said: For in the end they are going to finish integrating this anomaly into the official narrative, which at the time the Covidianists said was "an error" and "impossible."
I do not recall an "official" response from the media regarding the fecal waters of Barcelona.
It was just a news item that appeared in The Backyard, I guess by "mistake" and disappeared in time like tears in the rain...
The French was already saying Friker Jimenez in his day
Iker is false dissent.
Blend truths with lies so the last ones cook better.
I can't even see him.
If in the summer of 2019 he was already in China...
I've been researching the subject, and it looks like the HIV virus that kills is real, but only when your body is mortally lacking selenium and three other critical nutrients (I don't remember the names now).
That is, they call AIDS what they should call malnutrition because everything points to it as a case of malnutrition.
Am I much or little wrong?
to see... there were already samples of Valencia fecal waters from 2019 with positive covid in the middle of last year.
Don't make us new