Coronaviruses and masks are necessary?
The first case of coronavirus in Spain was last January 31: "just" two and a half months ago but it looks like an eternity.
So many things have changed: our routines, day to day, the interruption of activities that we used to consider basic, but what irritates me most are the mental bandages around the recommendations that are made to "protect" our health.
And it is that at first we said that masquerades were not necessary and in recent days they are being sold to us as indispensable (by the way at the price of gold), while the Government is trying to get the medal that gives them away in big cities, distributing them as if they were underwear in a market, manning them and delivering them without any hygiene measures.
If it had been misconceived, I would have believed that the recommendations they give us from the Government, rather than scientific criteria, follow logistical criteria.
I explain: masks do not work (they were not in stock), but now that they have received a large order they are necessary; there is no need to test only serious cases, when it has been shown that if we really want to stop the contagion we need to test massively everyone for the high percentage of asymptomatic cases that exist and spread the infection (but there is no test), nor do the health-care workers be tested even if they have symptoms or have been in contact with a confirmed COVID, for as long as they have been in contact with a COVID.
Fernando Simón lied in one of the morning appearances saying the opposite
(This may explain why Spain is the country with the highest number of health-care providers.)
Now that masquerades have become a material of prime necessity, and if we look at the price, in luxury items (many people are making millions playing with the fear pandemic associated with coronavirus), it is up to us whether masquerades are really necessary or it is a new recommendation that the WHO imposes on us, which we do not need to remember, two months ago told us that they were not necessary.
Or is it a "gift" that the Government wants to give us so that we have the feeling that it looks for us and protects us by delivering millions of masks in the country with the highest number of deaths per 100,000 inhabitants?
Will it be an alibi to clear your conscience?
I do not want to go into much of the criticism of how this pandemic has been managed, because in Spain, you are either red or you are fach, there is no objectivity in acknowledging errors and providing solutions, so we are going.
Indeed, after reviewing again the existing bipolarity on the subject, I reaffirm what I already defended in his day.
MASCARILLS ARE NOT IMPRESSIVE and therefore the recommendation for their use should be quarantined.
I start with the final conclusions and then I talk about the types of masks and the indications of each one, but the central point is that people misuse masks and the consequence is that we are more at risk of getting infected: we touch them with dirty hands, we put them in the chin to talk to someone (an absolute sense), or as a diadem, or we take them off by putting our hands inside that is in contact with the mouth and nose... All this contributes to the mere fact that we have a piece of fabric in our mouth we have a deceptive false security that can make us lower our guard.
The use of a mask should not forget to do the basics, which has actually shown that it reduces the likelihood of infection: wash our hands with water and soap every time (or with a disinfectant hydroalcoholic solution), maintain a social distance of at least two meters, cough covering our mouth with elbow, avoid touching our eyes, nose or mouth, and disinfect surfaces that we have or are going to handle with water and away.
Let the use of the mask not cloud these pillars.
Are there cases where masquerades may be indicated?
I insist on trying to stem the tide of masquerade shopping and the distress caused by not taking one or having it to pay for 10 €: the effectiveness of the prevention of coronavirus infection is limited.
There are different types of masks that can make them recommendable in certain situations / people.
But I insist, if they are not used correctly, masquerades do not reduce the risk of transmission, but increase it.
If we use a mask, we have to be very strict about how to put it on, wear it, and remove it.
It is of little use for the Government to presume to hand over masks if they are handed over without precautions and without explaining the importance of how we have to act while wearing them.
When do you wear masks?
Masks should be used in people with symptoms of respiratory infection (coughing, moccasins, sore throat, fever) but without COVID confirmation or in confirmed cases, although in these cases, what they should do is be isolated in their room without leaving.
People are wrong.
It is believed that by wearing the typical surgical mask, we are preventing ourselves from being infected with the virus.
And this is not the case: these masks, they don 't prevent the virus from entering our mouth or nose as the virus particles cross this barrier.
The purpose of these masks is to prevent us from spreading the virus to others.
Unfortunately, in this country (and in many) no mass testing is being done, so there are people who are not diagnosed either because they have mild symptoms or because they don't even have symptoms, but who are infected and therefore spread the virus by touching, coughing, breathing.
These masks prevent an infected person from expelling the virus into the environment.
As much as they now sell us the opposite, it is not known to what extent the use of masks in the community can contribute to the decrease of infection, although due to the high number of people infected and without symptoms or slight, the use of masks could be considered when visiting crowded and closed spaces (supermarkets, public transport...).
Although it is worth repeating: wearing a mask should not give us a false sense of being protected and at all times we must be careful to follow the indications that have really proved effective: wash our hands with water and soap every time (or with a water-alcohol disinfectant solution), maintain a social distance of at least two meters, cough covering our mouth with elbow, avoid touching our eyes, nose or mouth, and disinfect surfaces that we have or are going to handle with water and far away.
The use of masks should be considered only as a complementary measure and not as a replacement for the preventive measures you have just read.
Health personnel who are working with suspected cases or who have contact with patients also meet criteria for the use of masks (filter masks).
What kind of masks are there?
In general, there are three types that differ in the ability to filter inspired or exhaled air, or what is the same, in the ability to protect the person wearing the mask or the rest of the population in the event of an airborne infection.
Surgical masks: the "all-life" ones, the most numerous and until a few weeks ago, cheap.
They were used by professionals working in an operating room to protect patients from possible infectious agents that were in the nasal or oral cavity of the person wearing the mask.
I repeat: these masks exert a barrier to prevent the emission of breathing that an infected person ejects by sneezing or coughing.
Therefore, the idea that with this mask I make a barrier to prevent someone from infecting me is wrong.
Filter masks: the famous FFP1, FFP2 or FFP3: contain a microparticle filter that protects the user from the inhalation of possible environmental pollutants.
FFP1, 2 or 3 vary in their internal mechanism that make the efficiency of filtration greater and the percentage of escape to the interior minimal.
These masks, unlike surgical masks, are intended for professionals or people in direct contact with people with COVID to avoid infection, but are not intended for infected people to stop infecting others, as the virus can be transmitted through the valve.
Hygiene masks, housewives: my admiration for the people who are making them, sewing and donating in such a way of solidarity goes ahead.
Yes, we are a great country, but we are for its people and not for our politicians who are incapable of making constructive criticism beyond the left or the right and him and you more.
The use of these non-homologated masks is being promoted in part by the shortage of surgical masks.
If the aim is to try to stop the infection, its use could be justified in the attempt to reduce the transmission of the virus from the mouth and nose of the non-ill or asymptomatic person as a complementary measure, but never without replacing preventive measures.
These solidarity masks have a great heart, but appear to have very limited effectiveness in preventing infection.
Therefore, recapitulate the indications:
Using surgical mask if we have symptoms, we have been in contact with a confirmed COVID19, we believe we may be incubating the disease.
It's not used to not infect me, but to not infect others.
They could be indicated when we go to crowded and closed spaces as a support measure.
Use FFP2 masks if you are a health care worker caring for probable or confirmed cases of infection.
They would also have to be the masks of people who are in isolation in a room of their home in a confirmed case or with high diagnostic suspicion.
FFP3 masks are reserved for medical procedures such as aerosols, intubation or manual ventilation.
Tips if we put on a mask
We do not fall into the false sense of security and immunity that wearing a mask can make us believe.
Now, if we use a mask, let 's do it right.
To this end, it takes due account of the following recommendations:
Wear the mask carefully, covering your mouth and nose well.
Make it work so that there are no face-to-face spaces
Don't touch your mask while you're wearing it.
Be very careful when you take it away.
Do not touch the front part but remove the gums or tear it down the back of the neck....
After removing the mask, wash your hands with water and soap or with a hydroalcoholic solution
If the mask gets wet, you have to change it for another one.
Masquerades are of one use.
Once used, they must be discarded.
Avoid disinfecting them for reuse
If not, you choose to try to disinfect them, be very careful with the technique you use.
Do not share a mask with another person once you have disinfected it
I'm firing him again.
A mask alone does not provide sufficient protection and therefore it is essential to follow the recommendations that have proven their effectiveness to stem the infection: wash our hands with water and soap every time (or with a disinfectant hydroalcoholic solution), maintain a social distance of at least two meters, cough covering our mouth with elbow, avoid touching our eyes, nose or mouth, and disinfect surfaces that we have or are going to handle with water and away..
Please, mass testing for the entire population.
If it had been so from the beginning, another rooster would have sung... but after two months of nightmare, it's time we realized this.
Only in this way will we make effective isolation and confinement will give the desired results.
A lot of encouragement and thanks for your efforts to stay tuned
Online consultation