There is no evidence that the Chinese government is seeking Supreme Court approval to kill coronavirus patients.
Since February 6, a social media article has been circulating claiming that the Chinese government is seeking the approval of that country's Supreme Court to kill 20,000 coronavirus patients and thus control the epidemic that began in December 2019.
But there are no records that China has made such an announcement and the original article was posted on a website that usually produces fake content.
The entries circulated on Facebook and Twitter.
Some (1, 2, 3, 4 and 5) include the link to the article, posted on the portal "
, in English, and entitled
China seeks court approval to kill more than 20,000 coronavirus patients to prevent further spread of the virus
Others (1, 2 and 3), however, simply repeat their content.
Similar entries are circulated in English and Portuguese.
The article, published on Thursday, February 6, asserts that the Chinese Supreme Court would approve "
Friday "
the authorization allegedly requested by the government.
However, there is no record of such a decision.
Furthermore, the text does not mention any governmental or judicial source supporting these claims.
A Suspicious Site
City News (ab-tc.com), which published the note, has already spread disinformation in the past.
This was confirmed by AFP in August 2019, when it verified an article about an alleged shooting in several cities in the United States, and in June 2019, with another stating that a Canadian nightclub had been closed for selling human flesh.
All these articles, as well as that of the alleged request to the Chinese Supreme Court to kill patients with coronavirus, are signed by a
local correspondent
, no more details.
Ab-tc.com has no section "
about us "
That detail who's behind the platform.
Nor is there any disclaimer indicating that the content is satirical or fictitious.
A search on the Whois portal, a public database with domain registration details, revealed that the domain of this website was registered in Guangdong, China, with the American Wild West Domains on June 14, 2019.
No court records
A keyword search at the China Internet Information Center on the alleged government plans yielded no results.
Nor are there results in a similar search on the Chinese Supreme People's Court website.
Nor is there anything in the list of upcoming court hearings related to the new coronavirus, as can be seen in this screenshot:
Screenshot of February 11, 2020 from the website of the Supreme People's Court of China
The Chinese government's alleged request for authorization to kill coronavirus patients is also not among the daily reports of the World Health Organization (WHO).
The new coronavirus epidemic has killed over 1,000 people in mainland China and infected over 42,000, the Chinese authorities reported on 11 February 2020.
Misinformation about the false request for euthanasia was also verified by Snopes and Africa Check.
In conclusion, there is no record that the Chinese government has sought authorization from that country's Supreme Court to kill 20,000 coronavirus patients.
In addition, the website that disseminated this version has published disinformation in the past.