What if he got here before?
Coronavirus has been circulating latent in China since October
Was it already circulating in October?
Some studies suggest that it is.
The coronavirus SARS-CoV-2, the cause of the coronavirus pandemic, was already circulating latent and silent in Wuhan in October and spread "in a stochastic manner and without showing epidemic signs," according to a study involving biologists from the University of Barcelona collecting Efe.
The paper, which publishes the journal 'Frontiers in Medicine', argues that although the SARS-CoV-2 outbreak officially unpredictably occurred in the popular wild animal market of Wuhan (China) in December 2019, phylogenetic studies indicate that coronavirus has been circulating in a dormant phase since October in that city of Hubei Province in China.
"In this phase of latency, the infection followed its silent course," according to the team of researchers, consisting of Jordi Serra-Cobo and Marc López, of the Faculty of Biology and the Biodiversity Research Institute (IRBio) of the UB; Roger Frutos, of the Centre for International Cooperation in Agronomic Research for Development (CIRAD, France); and Christian A. Devaux, of the National Centre for Research (CNRS).
The study reviews the unique combination of events that allowed the global expansion of this new coronavirus, which shows a long incubation period, a high number of asymptomatic cases, and high international mobility.
According to Serra-Cobo, for an infectious disease to spread, three conditions must be met: the pathogen must be able to infect and reproduce in humans, it must be able to come into contact with people through a natural reservoir, and it must be propagated through a wide social circuit.
In the case of the Covid-19, all the required conditions coincided in Wuhan at the end of 2019.
According to the authors, the emergence of coronavirus is the result of an exceptional "planetary alignment," that is, a specific coincidence of biological and social factors that allowed it to emerge and expand worldwide.
"What triggered the epidemic was the simultaneous appearance of two important celebrations in the same place - the great family feast and the Chinese New Year - that brought many people into contact with others initially infected, which provided the necessary amplification phase," according to the authors, indicating that "another key step was mobility."
According to Serra-Cobo, "nothing can be done to prevent the circulation of coronavirus in the wild, i.e. during the wild cycle."
The biologist has noted that "environmental alterations and the anthropization of natural systems affect the loss of habitats and biodiversity, affect the dynamics of pathogen-reservoir species, and increase the likelihood that they will infect the human species."
"This phenomenon is especially important in Southeast Asia, where the SARS and Covid-19 epidemics have originated," stressed Serra-Cobo, UB Professor of Evolutionary Biology, Ecology and Environmental Sciences and member of an EU project for rapid detection of coronavirus through nanoducts.
The professor argues that it is essential to prohibit the possession and use of protected species and offer alternatives to avoid the impact of the black market of wildlife.
"Even if the SARS-CoV-2 outbreak originated unexpectedly in Wuhan, it could have been avoided," the authors say, recalling that the onset of this pandemic is comparable to previous coronavirus outbreaks, such as Middle East respiratory syndrome or MERS, known to the international scientific community.
There will be other pandemics.
It 's just a matter of probability and time.
Currently, the emergency risk is mostly coronaviruses, arboviruses and influenza viruses, "the authors of the study warned, recommending" an international effort that governments can anticipate and prepare to stop the next pandemic at its point of origin. "