The photograph of a mannequin carried in an unfolded shirt reveals "the lie of COVID-19": it's a US Navy exercise.
Pandemic denial groups continue to spread messages suggesting that COVID-19 is a setup.
Although more than 1.1 million people died worldwide, according to official figures provided by the World Health Organization, some viral messages continue to point out that the victims are not real or are being exaggerated.
In that context, an old image of a mannequin being transported on a stretcher has been circulating in recent weeks, which would supposedly support conspiracy theories.
"Another young mannequin is missing from the COVID-19," notes the message that has been viral on social media alongside the image of the mannequin on a stretcher.
"The lie is being untenable," adds a Facebook post that shares this image.
Borregolandia is waking up!
Oh no?
, "says another Instagram post.
The image actually shows a mannequin on a stretcher, but this is not a montage but a US Navy exercise.
Therefore, the viral messages are false.
The US Navy's simulation
The simulation was made on March 31 and the full photo, taken by Sara Eshleman, can be found at the
, a U.S. Department of Defense media service.
Source: Defense Visual Information Distribution Service - US Department of Defense
In the photo you can see the practice of transporting patients to the hospital ship USNS Comfort, which the previous day had arrived at New York Harbor to relieve the hospital load in the face of the growing number of cases being registered in the city.
At the foot of the picture it is clarified that the military "are exercising the transport of a patient from the pier to the hospital ship (...) as support for the nation's efforts against COVID-19."
The USNS Comfort operated as a hospital for patients who were not infected with the new coronavirus so that city health centers could concentrate their efforts on COVID-19 cases.
The viral photos that report a conspiracy amplify the dummy and cut the original image, so that several of the military who were part of the exercise cannot be seen.
The hoax, which circulated in different languages, had already been denied by the US verification organization in April.
, member of the International Fact-Checking Network (IFCN) as well as Newtral.es.
The use of manicure is common in simulation medical exercises and is used in different Spanish hospitals, as you can see here and here.
Bulbs, tubers, tuberous roots, corms, crowns and rhizomes
On the other hand, it is not the first hoax to use images from a medical simulation to spread the negationist theories of COVID-19.
In early October we checked the manipulation of a video showing a staff training exercise at a Berlin hospital.
[No, a video from a German hospital does not show that the pandemic is a montage: it was recorded by a student in an exercise and the images were manipulated]
There are also cults who, contrary to these cases, reported the use of COVID-19 victims when they were actually maniacs.
This is the case of the video of the controversial Russian rapper Husky that we explain here.
[Bodies of dead COVID-19 are not coming down the facade of a building in Russia; they're maniacs]
This video has been viral as if they were dropping bodies of dead people from COVID-19 on the facade of a building in Russia, but it was actually the recording of Husky's last video, for which mannequins were used.
Sources
This is our working methodology.
After the verification process, and depending on the data, we award one of the following categories: