One in five English people believes COVID is a Jewish conspiracy - poll
One in five Britons believes that Jews created COVID-19 to collapse the economy for financial gain, according to a press release linked to a survey by Oxford University.
The finding was part of a broader survey of attitudes towards the virus and measures taken to prevent its spread, which found that there was a strong background of distrust of official advice on the virus among the British public.
Skeptics were also less likely to comply with measures such as social estrangement.
The Oxford Survey of Explanations, Attitudes and Narratives on Coronavirus (OCEANS), published in the journal Psychological Medicine (no link provided), surveyed 2,500 adults representing the English population by age, sex, region and income, on their attitudes towards the government's narrative on coronavirus and related conspiracy theories.
He found that 5.3% said they "agree a little," 6.8% said they "agree moderately," 4.6% said they "agree very much," and 2.4% said they "completely agree" with the statement "The Jews have created the virus to collapse the economy for financial gain."
80.8% disagreed at all.
Similar figures were recorded for conspiracy theories involving other groups: while 80.1% of respondents disagreed with the statement "Muslims are propagating the virus as an attack on Western values," 19.9% did so to some extent, including 2.4% who fully agreed.
More than a quarter of respondents thought that "celebrities are paid to say they have the coronavirus," and that politicians, for example British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, "have pretended to have the coronavirus.".....................
Almost half of those surveyed (45.4%) believed to some extent that "coronavirus is a biological weapon developed by China to destroy the West.."
"There is a fracture: most people largely accept COVID-19's explanations and official orientation; a significant minority do not," the main author of the study, Daniel Freeman, Professor of Clinical Psychology at Oxford University, said in a statement.
"The possible consequences, however, affect us all," he continued.
The details of conspiracy theories differ, and may even be contradictory, but an attitude of deep suspicion prevails.
The epidemic has all the ingredients necessary for the growth of conspiracy theories, including sustained threat, exposure to vulnerabilities, and forced change.
The new conspiracy ideas have been largely based on previous prejudices and conspiracy theories.
Beliefs seem corrosive to our necessary collective response to the crisis.
In the wake of the epidemic, mistrust seems to have become widespread. "
Overall, about 60% of respondents believe to some extent that the government is misleading the public about the cause of the virus, and 40% believe that the virus has been deliberately spread by powerful people to gain control.
20% believe, at least to some extent, that the virus is a hoax.
These findings correlate with how prepared people are to meet established measures to prevent the spread of the disease, with those who doubt the government's narrative being less likely to, for example, stay home, not meet people outside their home, or stay 2 meters away from others when they are out.
They are also less likely to accept a vaccine, run a diagnostic test, or wear a mask, according to Professor Freeman.
The poll comes shortly after Hope Not Hate published a similar poll of its own, conducted between February and April 2020, which found that 13% of British people believe that Jews have "undue control of banks," while a substantial 38% said they "could not say it with certainty" or "did not know."
The press release noted that "while conspiracy theories do not have to be inherently anti-Semitic, it is remarkable how often Jews are explicitly or implicitly identified as the conspirators" and that "it is the anti-Semitic ideas, more than any other form of racism, that form the basis of modern conspiracy theories."
Dr. Sinéad Lambe, a clinical psychologist who worked on the most recent Oxford study, noted: "Conspiracy thinking is not isolated on the margins of society and probably reflects growing distrust of government and institutions.
It can be said that conspiratorial beliefs travel farther and faster than ever.
Our survey indicates that people who have such beliefs share them; social media provide a platform already prepared. "