Scientists test 1921 tuberculosis vaccine for coronavirus
The scientific community continues to seek alternatives to stem the coronavirus pandemic.
An international group of researchers has begun to administer the 1921 tuberculosis vaccine to thousands of volunteers to determine whether it also protects against Covid-19.
More than 10,000 people in Spain, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Australia, and Brazil will receive an injection of the antigen, known as BCG, which has already demonstrated its effectiveness in strengthening the immune system against other respiratory diseases.
The University of Exeter, in the United Kingdom, has recruited over a thousand people for its trials, most of them health-care workers because they are the most exposed to the virus, according to the University of Exeter's report.
"This could be of great global importance," explained Professor John Campbell of the British University's Faculty of Medicine.
BCG vaccine seeks to give pharmaceutical companies extra time
The TB vaccine does not represent a long-term solution to coronavirus.
However, it is an alternative to reducing the risk of contracting the disease, while the world's leading pharmaceutical companies continue to develop their prototype antigen against Covid-19.
"There is a pretty good theory that BCG could make you less likely to get sick when you get Covid," he explained to the
Sam Hilton, one of the doctors involved in Exeter University trials.
This hypothesis has been endorsed by the World Health Organization (WHO), which anticipates that it can become a major tool to curb Covid-19 and to prevent the development of future pandemics by other diseases.
Millions of people would have to re-vaccinate against tuberculosis
Although millions of people around the world received the TB vaccine when they were children, researchers believe that its ability to immunize has ceased to have effect to this day.
Therefore, citizens would need to receive a second dose of adults.
Tuberculosis remains responsible for the deaths of about two million people worldwide, most of them in developing countries.
Vaccination in Spain ceased in the 1980s, after the disease ended in the country..
What else to read?
A home-made coronavirus vaccine works (but will never see light)
Subscribe to our Telegram channel to get the latest news on the coronavirus pandemic in Spain, Europe and the world.
He has been a political and economic journalist in Digital Economy since 2020.
Before, I worked for the Efe Agency in Spain and South America.