Clinical trial of azithromycin found no benefits for patients with severe COVID-19
Illustrative archive image of the ultrastructural morphology exhibited by the SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus, which was identified as the cause of the outbreak of a respiratory disease initially detected in Wuhan, China, disseminated by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) in Atlanta, Georgia, United States.
January 29, 2020.
Alissa Eckert, MS; Dan Higgins, MAM / CDC / Handout via REUTERS.
LONDON, Dec 14 (Reuters) - A clinical trial of the antibiotic azithromycin widely used in hospitalized patients with COVID-19 failed to find convincing evidence of benefit, prompting doctors to announce on Monday that they had terminated the trial.
"Our results show very clearly that for patients hospitalized with COVID-19, azithromycin is not an effective treatment," said Peter Horby, co-lead investigator for the UK RECOVERY trial, who explores a range of drugs to determine their potential to treat pandemic disease.
Horby argued that while the results of azithromycin are "disappointing," they would provide a guide for doctors around the world who care for patients infected with SARS-CoV-2.
The RECOVERY trial was the first to show that dexamethasone, a steroid that, like azithromycin, is cheap and widely available, could save the lives of people with COVID-19 in serious condition.
He also proved that the drug against hydroxychloroquine malaria is not beneficial for the treatment of this disease.
In the trial group, 2,582 patients were treated with azithromycin compared to 5,182 people who received routine care.
Preliminary analysis showed no significant differences in death rates after 28 days, which were 19% in both groups.
There was also no evidence of beneficial effects on the risk that patients would need mechanical ventilation or on how long they had to stay in the hospital.
The data has not yet been peer reviewed, but was published online on the medRxiv website.
Given the lack of benefits, experts on the steering committee overseeing the trial agreed that it should close on November 27, Horby said in a statement.