Is the plasma of people who have recovered from covid-19 an effective treatment for people with covid-19?
Key messages
• There is much confidence that convalescent plasma has no beneficial effects on the treatment of people with moderate to severe covid-19.
• The effects of convalescent plasma on the treatment of people with mild or no symptoms of covid-19 are unknown.
• Some 130 ongoing, unpublished and recently published studies were found.
This review will be updated with evidence from these studies as soon as possible.
The new evidence could answer the remaining questions.
What is convalescent plasma?
The body produces antibodies as one of its defenses against infection.
Antibodies are found in a part of the blood called plasma.
The plasma of people treated with covid-19 contains antibodies to covid-19 and can be used to produce two preparations.
First, it can be used to prepare convalescent plasma, which is the plasma containing these antibodies.
Second, it can be used to prepare hyperimmune immunoglobulin, which is more concentrated and therefore contains more antibodies.
convalescent plasma and hyperimmune immunoglobulin have been used successfully to treat some viruses.
These treatments (administered by drip or injection) are usually well tolerated, but can cause unwanted effects.
What did you want to find out?
It was wanted to find out whether transfusion of convalescent plasma or hyperimmune immunoglobulin are effective treatments for people with confirmed covid-19.
The following were examined:
• deaths from any cause after treatment with convalescent plasma or hyperimmune immunoglobulin;
• improvement or worsening of the condition of patients, measured by the number of people who needed a respirator (a machine that helps people breathe if they cannot do so on their own);
Quality of life; and
Undesirable effects.
What was done?
Studies were sought to investigate convalescent plasma or hyperimmune immunoglobulin to treat people with covid-19.
Studies could have been conducted anywhere in the world and could have included participants of any age, sex or ethnic origin with mild, moderate or severe covid-19.
As far as possible, the results of the studies were grouped together for analysis.
Confidence in the evidence was rated based on factors such as the methods and size of the studies.
What was found?
Thirteen studies with 48,509 participants were found to investigate convalescent plasma.
All but one study included participants with moderate to severe covid-19.
No studies have been found to investigate hyperimmune immunoglobulin.
Studies were conducted mainly in hospitals, in countries around the world.
Moderate to severe Covid-19 The convalescent plasma was compared with placebo or standard care:
• convalescent plasma does not make a difference in deaths due to any cause until 28 days after treatment.
Approximately 237 of every 1,000 people who received placebo or standard care died, compared to 233 of every 1,000 people who received convalescent plasma (seven studies, 12,646 people);
• convalescent plasma makes little or no difference in the improvement of patients' condition in terms of the need for less respiratory assistance in the whole population who needed some form of respiratory assistance before the start of treatment (eight studies, 12,682 people), and also in the people who received ventilation at the start of the study (two studies, 630 people);
• convalescent plasma does not make a difference in the worsening of the patient's disease.
Approximately 126 out of every 1,000 people who received placebo or standard care needed invasive mechanical ventilation, compared to 123 out of every 1,000 people who received convalescent plasma (four studies, 11,765 people);
• the convalescent plasma might not make a difference in the unwanted effects.
The eight studies that reported undesirable effects measured and published their results very differently, so no conclusions can be drawn.
None of the studies reported on quality of life.
Covid-19 light It is not known whether convalescent plasma compared to placebo or standard care makes a difference in the number of deaths, improvement or worsening of patients' condition, quality of life or undesirable effects.
Only one study with 160 participants was found to evaluate people with mild covid-19.
What are the limitations of the evidence?
• There is a high level of evidence for deaths from any cause and improvement or worsening of patients' condition in people with moderate to severe covid-19.
• Confidence in the rest of the evidence for people with moderate and severe, and mild, covid-19 is very limited because the studies were very different and did not measure or record their results using consistent methods.
• Little useful evidence was found on unwanted effects and none on quality of life.
What is the degree of updating of this evidence?
This is the fourth version of the revision.
The evidence is updated as of 17 March 2021.
There is high certainty in the evidence that convalescent plasma for the treatment of people with moderate to severe disease does not reduce mortality and has little or no effect on clinical improvement measures.
The adverse effects of convalescent plasma are unknown.
Although great efforts are made to study covid-19, the heterogeneous publication of the results remains a problem.
There are 100 studies in progress and 33 studies that are recorded as completed or completed.
Publication of ongoing studies could resolve some of the uncertainties surrounding treatment with hyperimmune immunoglobulin for people with any severity of the disease and treatment with convalescent plasma for people with asymptomatic or mild disease.
The translation of Cochrane reviews has been done under the responsibility of the Iberoamerican Cochrane Center, thanks to the subscription made by the Ministry of Health of the Government of Spain.
If you detect a translation problem, please contact communication@cochrane.es.