Coronavirus Update (COVID-19): FDA revokes emergency use authorization for the monoclonal antibody bamlanivimab
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) revoked the emergency use authorization (US) allowing experimental therapy of bamlanivimab monoclonal antibodies, when administered alone, for the treatment of COVID-19 from mild to moderate in adults and certain pediatric patients.
Based on its ongoing analysis of emerging scientific data, specifically the sustained increase in viral variants of SARS-CoV-2 that are resistant to bamlanivimab alone, resulting in an increased risk of treatment failure, the FDA has determined that the known and potential benefits of bamlanivimab, when administered alone, no longer exceed the known and potential risks for its authorized use.
Therefore, the agency determined that the criteria for issuing an authorization were no longer met and has revoked the US.
On November 9, 2020, based on all available scientific evidence at the time, the FDA issued a U.S. patent to Eli Lilly and Co.
authorizing the emergency use of bamlanivimab only for the treatment of mild to moderate COVID-19 in adults and paediatric patients (aged 12 years or over weighing at least 40 kg) with positive results in direct viral tests of SARS-CoV-2, and who are at high risk of progression to severe COVID-19 and / or hospitalization.
It is important to note that, although the FDA is now revoking this US, alternative monoclonal antibody therapies are still available under the US, including REGEN-COV (casirivimab and imdevimab, administered together), and bamlanivimab and eteselab, administered together, for the same uses previously authorized for bamlanivimab alone.
The FDA considers that these alternative monoclonal antibody therapies remain appropriate to treat patients with COVID-19 when used according to authorized indications, based on the information currently available.
"While the risk-benefit assessment for the use of bamlanivimab is only no longer favourable due to the increased frequency of resistant variants, other monoclonal antibody therapies authorized for emergency use remain appropriate treatment options when used according to the authorised indications and can help keep high-risk patients with COVID-19 out of the hospital," said Dr. Patrizia Cavazzoni, M.D., Director of the FDA's Drug Evaluation and Research Center.
We urge the American public to seek these therapies when they are needed while continuing to use the best available data to provide patients with safe and effective treatments during this pandemic.
Monoclonal antibodies are laboratory-made proteins that mimic the ability of the immune system to fight harmful pathogens such as viruses, such as SARS-CoV-2.
Like other infectious organisms, SARS-CoV-2 can mutate over time, resulting in genetic variation in the population of circulating strains of the virus.
The FDA has the responsibility to regularly review the suitability of a U.S., and as such, the agency will review emerging information associated with the emergency uses of authorized products.
Recent data from the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) National Genomic Surveillance Program.
U.
They show a higher frequency of SARS-CoV-2 variants that are expected to be resistant to only administered bamlanivimab.
By mid-March 2021, approximately 20% of sequenced viruses in the US were reported as variants expected to be resistant to bamlanivimab alone, increasing from approximately 5% by mid-January 2021.
In addition, there are currently no test technologies available to allow health care providers to analyze individual patients for the viral variants of SARS-CoV-2 before starting treatment with monoclonal antibodies.
Therefore, empirical treatment with monoclonal antibody therapies that are expected to work widely against all variants across the country should be used to reduce the likelihood of treatment failure.
The FDA will continue to work closely with other federal government agencies, including the CDC and the National Institutes of Health, to monitor variants that may affect approved monoclonal antibody therapies for emergency use.
The agency remains committed to providing timely and transparent communication as additional information becomes available.
The FDA, a subsidiary of the United States Department of Health and Social Services, protects public health by ensuring the protection, efficacy, and safety of both veterinary and human medicines, vaccines and other biological products intended for human use, as well as medical devices.
Dependence is also responsible for the protection and safety of our national food supply, cosmetics, dietary supplements, products that emit electronic radiation, as well as the regulation of tobacco products.
# #