Coriander: Ibuprofen and Repos
wait
Coronavirus | French health authorities warn that ibuprofen may worsen coronavirus infection - RTVE.es
Yuri Grimes said:
Click to expand...
Paracetamol is much more toxic than ibuprofen and has a lower lethal dose than ibuprofen.
Pollepole said: Paracetamol is much more toxic than ibuprofen and has a lower lethal dose than ibuprofen.
Technically everything is toxic depending on the dose
Yuri Grimes said, technically everything is toxic depending on the dose.
Yes, but the lethal dose of paracetamol is much lower than that of ibuprofen.
Pollepole said: Yes, but the dose of lethal paracetamol is much lower than that of ibuprofen.
something that shouldn 't worry anyone who doesn' t intend to commit suicide with paracetamol.
Pollepole said: Yes, but the dose of lethal paracetamol is much lower than that of ibuprofen.
So we limit the dose to one every eight hours.
People continue to confuse ibuprofen with paracetamol
In fact, in France ibuprofen is discouraged to treat this virus.
Efraim said: That 's why we limit the dose to one every eight hours.
I'm a big fan of ibuprofen.
Unlike paracetamol, you can take it until you're drunk and your rot will not suffer.
With the paracetamol, you play it.
Pollepolle said: I am a big fan of ibuprofen.
Unlike paracetamol, you can take it until you're drunk and your rot will not suffer.
With the paracetamol, you play it.
I use them for what: if I have inflammation, always ibuprofen.
If it's headache or fever, paracetamol.
And if I'm drunk, I sleep with my hair on.
with ibuprofen at the end of the world
Ephraim said: I use them according to what: if I have inflammation, always ibuprofen.
If it's headache or fever, paracetamol.
And if I'm drunk, I sleep with my hair on.
I take ibuprofen for almost any kind of trouble, but always with my head.
For example, if I 'm going to run, I don' t take it because it can mask your discomfort with some injury and because you don 't notice anything, forces and you' re even more fucked up.
Relax, at 5 paces the box of 20 400 mg ibuprofen over the counter in pharmacies people are going to make sure the doctor prescribes it.
palodearia said: Take it easy, at 5 blocks the box of 20 400 mg ibuprofen over-sale in pharmacies people are going to make sure that it is prescribed by the doctor.
Vale 2.06
Sent from my Aquaris U Lite via Tapatalk