RadarCOVID is already tracking contacts in Spain: this is how apps from 5 European countries have helped or failed to combat coronavirus rebrandings
Spain already has RadarCOVID tracking contacts in several autonomous communities, and is expected to be available throughout the country by September 15.
Countries such as Italy or France have their apps available since early June, or Germany and Switzerland since late June.
Almost two months after its launch, the first conclusions can already be drawn about whether this technology is proving effective in fighting COVID-19.
There is a constant repeat: there are not enough downloads, although in Germany the app has been downloaded more than 17 million times.
France has problems because its app is not compatible with the protocol of Apple and Google by a decision of its own government.
The UK has had to restart the development of its contact tracking app to adapt to the API of these two technologies.
Spain already has its contact tracking app activated in several autonomous communities and expects it to be ready throughout the territory before September 15.
It has been requested, but the Spanish Government is already using this instrument to improve contact tracing ratios.
This measure adds to President Sánchez's announcement to put 2,000 military trackers at the disposal of the autonomies.
At the end of July, it was learned from a study by the Carlos III Health Institute that Spain was only able to track 3 average contacts for each case of coronavirus, as the agency reported.
EPH
Contact tracing is essential to combat a disease such as COVID-19, in which the number of asymptomatic and carriers is very high.
Developed by the multinational Indra for about 330,000 euros, RadarCOVID has recorded in its early days operating more than 2 million downloads between those made from Google's Play Store (Android) and Apple's App Store (on iPhone phones).
Although these figures do not mean how many apps are now properly enabled.
Read more: The real challenge of RadarCOVID, the contact tracking app, is to configure it: users with less expertise in technology will have problems making it work
RadarCOVID uses a protocol from Apple and Google whereby phones send codes to nearby phones.
If someone tests positive for a coronavirus, their community will give you a key that you will have to enter to confirm your case in the app.
All phones with which the infection has crossed will receive an anonymous alarm so that users know that they are exposed to a possible infection.
Many headlines have detailed that such applications would only be able to stem the pandemic if they were used by 60% of the population.
An article in
The magazine of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) spoke with researchers from the
papier
What this data came from, who made it clear that even with the use of 10% or 20% of the population, it would already help not to eradicate, but to contain the contagion.
The official and final release of RadarCOVID will be September 15, but other countries such as Germany, Italy, France or Switzerland have been using similar apps for weeks and even months.
In some cases it has been a complete failure.
In Germany, some 17 million downloads are considered "few"
Tracking app from Germany.
Germany launched Corona Warn App, based on the same Apple and Google model on which the Spanish app is based, but it did so two months ago.
The German app became available nationally on June 16, according to the station
By mid-August, however, the data was unsatisfactory... for the Germans themselves.
The application has recently surpassed 17 million downloads in a country of some 83 million people.
Several German media outlets have pointed out that this figure does not even account for 20% of the population, and even experts have stated on several portals in the country that if one person infects another, the current chance that the affected person will be infected by the app is only 6%.
Read more: How to find out if RadarCOVID, the app for tracking Spanish contacts, works correctly on your Android or iPhone mobile
The French app has had 2.3 million downloads but has only alerted 73 times
Cedric O, Secretary of Digital Economy of the French Government.
France, along with the United Kingdom, was one of the two major European countries that chose not to follow Apple and Google and use their protocol to develop their contact tracking app.
The app was launched in early June.
This was because Macron's government opted for its application to have centralized management of the data that would be generated when two nearby phones registered a "close contact."
The Apple and Google APIs prefer that such data be stored on devices, and only be derived to a centralized server when there is a confirmed case of COVID-19.
Read more: The Contact Tracking app will not be "a turning point" in the fight against COVID-19 without a "solid" Public Health structure, according to experts
The fact that the French app does not use the API of the owners of the major mobile operating systems can make it understood that StopCovid, as this app is called, has downloaded 2.3 million times... and has only reported 73 risk contacts with COVID-19 confirmations involved.
If anything, using other technology, the French app will not be compatible with the contact tracing applications of countries around it, such as Spain, Germany or Italy.
The European Commission is already working on interoperability that will make these apps compatible.
In Italy, only 13% of the population downloaded it, but it has demonstrated its potential....
Tracking app from Italy.
Like France, Italy launched Immuni, its contact tracking app, in early June.
In this case, the application does use the development of Apple and Google.
However, many Italians are not very satisfied with the results either.
Two and a half months after its launch, the application has been downloaded 5 million times, representing only 13% of the population.
Read more: RadarCOVID, the Spanish tracking app, is already available in some regions: 7 keys to understand how it works and why it might be useful
Even with that data, Immuni also has some numbers that invite optimism.
Since 1 June, 105 people have reported positive on the platform: 21 in June, 38 in July and 46 in August.
As a result of these positive results, 809 potential contagions have been reported and 4 COVID-19 reboots have been able to be stopped in time, according to, according according according according according according according according according according according
UK has had to start developing its app from scratch
Contact tracing application in the UK.
The British are a rockabilly case.
The neighbouring country, Ireland, already has a contact tracing app that its neighbours in Northern Ireland, the United Kingdom, can use.
The reason is no other than that Boris Johnson's government has been unable to launch the operational phase of its contact tracing app, even though it was one of the first European countries to conduct a pilot test.
This pilot test took place on the Isle of Wight, an isolated municipality near the Southampton coast.
But finally in June the British government had to abandon its app project.
Initially, the app was to be centralized, but development was complicated and in the summer he decided to start developing a decentralized app emulating the Apple and Google model.
Now, the new version of the app, already decentralized, is being tested again on the Isle of Wight and in a London district.
Read more: The 'bosses' of coronavirus trackers reveal the techniques they use to get infected, suspicious, and skeptical to collaborate: "We have very little time to earn their trust"
An app is not without controversy in its accounts, after which
the Johnson Executive would have paid about 945,000 euros to the Accenture team that advised the Government for a 10-week job.
Switzerland, cradle in Europe of this type of applications
In Switzerland the development of the tracking app was started with the privacy of users before its adoption in Europe.
A Spanish engineer, Carmela Troncoso, led a research team that developed the DP-3T protocol on which Apple and Google were later based.
SwissCovid, the Swiss application, pivoted the DP-3T protocol to that of Apple and Google being the majority.
Since its release in late June, it has been downloaded over 2.2 million times, but the app remains active on only about 1.5 million devices.
As a result of the transparency with which Switzerland has developed its app, on this website of a research team you can even consult how many COVID codes are introduced on the platform weekly.
An average of about 200.