The Hydrochloroquine Study Scandal
Who was behind it?
Anthony Fauci sabotea cure for Coronavirus on behalf of 'Big Pharma'
has exposed the scandal behind the study on hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) which was intended to sabotage this antimalarial active ingredient as a cure for COVID-19.
"Dozens of scientific papers from the CEO of the American technology company Lancet (co-authored), behind the scandal of the study of
hydroxychloroquine
are being audited, including one that, according to an expert in scientific integrity, contains images that appear to have been digitally manipulated.
The audit follows an investigation by The Guardian that found that the company Surgisphere would have used suspicious data in important scientific studies that were published and then retracted by leading medical journals around the world, including The Lancet and the New England Journal of Medicine... "
According to The Lancet:
... Several concerns were raised regarding the veracity of the data and analysis carried out by Surgisphere Corporation and its founder and co-author, Sapan Desai, in our publication.
We did a peer-to-peer review of Surgisphere... As such, they could not perform a peer-to-peer review and therefore notified us of their withdrawal from the peer review process.
The study was apparently based on a data analysis of 96,032 patients hospitalised by COVID-19 between 20 December 2019 and 14 April 2020 from 671 hospitals worldwide.
The database, according to The Guardian, was false.
I'm really sorry.
Dr. Sapan Desai, chief executive ('CEO') of Surgispare, was not in charge of the studio.
The main author was Harvard Medical School professor Mandeep Mehra:
I did not do enough to ensure that the source of the data was appropriate for this use.
For that, and for all the inconvenience, both directly and indirectly, I am very sorry. "
Dr. Sapan Desai took the blame.
Who was behind him?
The Surgisphere scientific scam: Who was behind it?
Who "commissioned" this report?
Were the pharmaceutical industry and vaccine industry lobbyists behind this initiative?
The Lancet acknowledges that the study received funding from the distinguished William Harvey Chair in Advanced Cardiovascular Medicine at Brigham and Women's Hospital which is in the hands of Dr. Mandeep Mehra.
In this regard, it is worth noting that Brigham Health has a major contract with Gilead Sciences Inc.
of 'Big Pharma', related to the development of the drug Remdesivir for the treatment of COVID-19.
The Gilead-Brigham Health project began in March 2020.
Did the Surgisphere study intend to sabotage the use of the HCQ, following the recommendations that Dr. Anthony Fauci has made to President Trump?
When reading the study (before it was retracted), "Dr. Fauci... smiled when he told CNN that" the data shows that hydroxychloroquine is not an effective treatment... "Referring to the Surgisphere report:" The scientific data are really quite clear about the lack of efficacy for it [of the HCQ], "said Dr. Fauci.
(Quoted by CNN).
Here is CNN's authorized assessment of the Surgisphere report (before The Lancet retracts):
"Severely ill patients with COVID-19 who were treated with hydroxychloroquine or chloroquine were more likely to die or develop dangerous irregular heart rhythms, according to a comprehensive observational study [of the Surgisphere] published on Friday [22 May 2020] in the medical journal The Lancet.
CNN "retracted" after backing false scientific studies?
From the beginning, Dr. Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergies and Infectious Diseases (NIAID), has spearheaded the campaign against hydroxychloroquine (largely on behalf of 'Big Pharma') by invoking similar "scientific arguments" against HCQ, saying there is no cure for COVID-19 and that the only solution is a vaccine.
The campaign to destroy hydroxychloroquine has been driven relentlessly by both competing pharmaceutical companies and those who want to destroy the US economy to advance their political agenda.
It is surprising that it has cost hundreds of thousands of lives and billions of dollars to taxpayers.
And while the corruption of science for political and / or financial benefit has become a characteristic feature of our time, it is not a new story.
The publication of the Surgisphere study had an immediate impact: according to The Guardian, "Surgisphere data caused global trials of hydroxychloroquine for COVID-19 to be stopped in May because they seemed to show that the drug had increased deaths in patients infected with COVID-19."
"Higher risk of death" if HCQ is taken, according to the study.
Days after the May 22 Surgisphere-Lancet false report, several countries, including Belgium, France and Italy, acted to stop the use of hydroxychloroquine.
The study concluded that patients taking the malaria drug had a higher risk of death than those who did not.
It is worth noting that prior to conducting the Surgisphere study, Dr. Fauci had categorically stated that the use of HCQ had not been studied in relation to coronavirus.
"Not checked": "Not known enough."
False and meaningless statements.
What Fauci did not mention was that chloroquine had been "studied" and tested fifteen years ago by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) as a drug to be used against coronavirus infections.
Chloroquine was used in 2002 and tested against SARS-1 coronavirus in a study under the auspices of the CDC published in 2005 in the Virology Journal.
The main conclusion of the paper was that: Chloroquine is a potent inhibitor of coronavirus infection and spread by SARS.
It was used in the 2002 SARS-1 outbreak.
He had CDC backing.
The lead author, Dr. Martin J. Vincent, along with several of his colleagues, were affiliated with the CDC's Atlanta-based Special Pathogens Division along with co-authors from a research institution associated with Montreal-based research.
The main conclusions of this study are that chloroquine is a proven drug and can be used for SARS coronavirus infections.
Dr. Anthony Fauci has not submitted a treatment that can be applied against COVID-19.
What it says is that there is no treatment.
Instead, it backs the false scientific study of Surgisphere that The Lancet retracts.
Dr. Anthony Fauci has been deliberately sabotaging a drug that was approved by the CDC 15 years ago for the treatment of the SARS-1 coronavirus.
More recently, it has been used in several countries to deal with the outbreak of coronavirus or SARS-COV-2 (COVID-19).............
What interests does Fauci serve?
12 June 2020
Professor Emeritus of Economics at the University of Ottawa, he is the founder and director of the Globalization Research Centre (
His writings have been published in more than 20 languages, and he is an anti-globalization and anti-war activist.
He has been a visiting professor at academic organizations in Western Europe, Latin America and South-East Asia, as well as an adviser to governments in developing countries and a consultant to international organizations such as the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP).
He has been awarded the Republic of Serbia Gold Medal for his writings on the NATO war of aggression against Yugoslavia (2014).
Original English version:
Published 10 June 2020.
Translated by Ariel Noyola Rodriguez for the Center for Research on Globalization (
https: / / www.globalization.ca / corrupcion-ciencia-anthony-fauci-sabotea-cura-para-coronavirus-en-nombre-de-big-pharma /