Covid-19: The Strange Company Behind the WHO's Change of Opinion on Hydrochloroquine
This has been one of the fastest 180-degree turns in the history of the World Health Organization (WHO).
The latter announced on Wednesday 3 June its intention to resume clinical trials on the use of Hydroxychloroquine to treat patients affected by Covid-19... just ten days after having stopped the process.
A new chapter opens in the already turbulent history of this antimalarial drug that US President Donald Trump claims to have taken to protect himself from coronavirus.
A change that also tarnishes the reputation of the highly respected British scientific journal The Lancet.
Indeed, WHO had decided to stop testing for the efficacy of Hydroxychloroquine following the publication of an article in this journal that "demonstrated" that this treatment increased the risk of heart complications among patients with Covid-19.
Other research centers followed suit.
Decisions with major consequences in the midst of a pandemic, while the race to find an effective solution is at its peak.
Surgisphere and its five employees
It should be noted that 'The Lancet' published on June 3 a "warning" related to the famous article, suggesting that perhaps there might be 'cat locked up'.
It was time: part of the scientific community lashed out at this study, whose conclusions were considered questionable by the most educated and completely false by the most extreme.
The researchers' fury, summarized in an open letter signed by more than 100 scientists, was particularly focused on Surgisphere, a small American biotechnology company run by one of the co-authors of the controversial study.
It was this company that provided all the medical data that allowed the assessment of the impact of hydroxychloroquine.
Overall, the authors of the study claim that Surgisphere provided access to health information for over 96,032 coronavirus-infected patients and hospitalised in 671 hospitals across six continents.
An immense database... of which no one or hardly anyone had heard so far.
For one simple reason: the Illinois company that manages this information seems to have come out of nowhere in just a few months.
Sapan Desai, general director of Surgisphere and former surgeon, claims that it was founded in 2009 and has been working for years to collect this ultra-sensitive medical information.
However, on LinkedIn, the company's profile shows only five employees who, with the exception of Sapan Desai, joined the company in 2020.
The profile of Surgisphere's collaborators does not give the impression of being a team at the forefront of technological innovation in the field of health, notes The Guardian newspaper, which did a research on its own.
"One of them used to write science fiction novels while another was a model and receptionist," the British newspaper summarizes.
Fake data?
How could such a small team get medical data from so many hospitals for so many patients?
That 's the million question for Peter Ellis, an Australian statistician who also turned his attention to the particular case of the Illinois small business, in a long blog post.
Officially, Surgisphere offers a technology platform equipped with "artificial intelligence and big data" to more than 1,000 hospitals and clinics to help them deal more effectively with all medical information about their patients.
In exchange for this service, Surgisphere can access all of this data, which is "anonymized," with the aim of making it available to the scientific community.
But building such a network of allies takes time, says Peter Ellis, who has worked multiple times with the Australian government managing important databases.
It is necessary to convince all members of a hospital, from the administrative and medical teams to those responsible for computer security, of the seriousness of the initiative.
In the end, it is the treatment of the most sensitive personal information that exists (complete clinical history, X-ray results, data on the medicines used, etc.
The screen of a computer shows Hydroxichloroquina for sale on a Brazilian website, on May 20, 2020 in Rio de Janeiro.
That an almost unknown private company has access to such treasure is potentially "a much bigger scandal than the Facebook data collected by Cambridge Analytica," says Peter Ellis.
Developing such a system is also costly.
The Australian statistician estimates the cost of such a platform at $300,000 per hospital and would not be "surprised that each facility would cost $1 million."
Surgisphere should then have similar funds.
There is no public information about this young company's budget, but Dun Badstreet, a company that collects financial data from companies around the world, assessed Surgisphere's revenues at only $45,245.
All these elements lead Peter Ellis to state that "the data provided for the 'Lancet' article were perhaps entirely fabricated."
Other scientists, who signed the open letter, are also inclined to share this view... but for other reasons.
They consider that the study figures do not correspond to the reality of the terrain.
The authors of the report claim, for example, to have accessed data on 600 Australians contaminated by Covid-19 by 21 April, of which only 73 would have died from the disease.
The problem is that there were officially only 67 coronavirus-related deaths to that date in Australia, as revealed by The Guardian.
Sapan Desai acknowledged the mistake, explaining that it had been due to a hospital that mistakenly classified itself as Australian while actually "depended on the Asian continent."
The accuracy of the data for Africa also raised suspicions.
It seems impossible that Surgisphere has been able in such a short time to obtain detailed medical information on more than 25% of all patients contaminated by Covid-19 on the African continent by 21 April, says James Watson, a British researcher residing in Thailand who co-signed the open letter.
Even the best-equipped private hospitals rarely have a fully updated computer system with all the data on their patients, adds Anthony Etyang, a Kenyan epidemiologist interviewed by The Scientist.
Surgisphere announces independent audit
But the 'Lancet' study is not the only one to have used the Surgisphere database, notes the American journal 'Science.'
There are not many more but they did have a real impact on policies to fight Covid-19.
One of them showed that Ivermectin, a drug used to treat various diseases such as scabies, reduced the mortality rate of people infected with coronavirus.
This result led the Peruvian government to add this drug to the list of recommended treatments against Covid-19.
Another study, published by the New England Journal of Medicine, concluded that certain common treatments for heart problems did not increase the risk of complications in the case of coronavirus contamination.
Like The Lancet, the New England Journal of Medicine decided to publish a warning about the reliability of this study.
Faced with criticism, Surgisphere announced that an independent audit would evaluate its scientific database as soon as possible.
Interviewed by The Guardian, Sapan Desai continues to defend the conclusions of the various studies in which he participated, stating that there is "a fundamental misunderstanding about what we are doing and about the functioning of our system."
However, he did not want to explain more to the British newspaper about his technology platform and continues to refuse to reveal the list of hospitals Surgisphere works with.
This is a topic of "data confidentiality," says Desai.
In any case, Hydrochloroquine did not need this new scandal.
Controversies surrounding Professor Didier Raoult's work, Donald Trump's biting claims about "the miracle cure," the WHO's change of mind, and revelations about the Surgisphere, have made this antimalarial drug the wrong scientific chapter of this pandemic.
This article was adapted from its original in French.