Dexamethasone: what is and why should this medicine not be abused?
Dexamethasone belongs to the family of corticosteroids, which have anti-inflammatory, immunosuppressive and anti-allergic properties.
These drugs are essential in the management of pathologies such as asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), acute respiratory distress, bronchopulmonary, nasal, skin and eye allergies.
It is also used for anaphylactic shock, rheumatoid arthritis, multiple sclerosis, brain edema and even to reduce side effects of chemotherapy, among other disorders.
Is dexamethasone effective against COVID-19?
In June 2020, the University of Oxford (UK) claimed in a press release, and later in the New England Journal of Medicine, that dexamethasone has the ability to reduce the risk of death in patients with COVID-19 with respiratory complications.
This claim by Oxford University was made possible by a study called Recovery, which aimed to evaluate the efficacy of different drugs against coronavirus and was tested in patients hospitalized with COVID-19 and found to provide benefits to patients in critical condition..............
Following the publication of the results of the Recovery trial, the World Health Organization (WHO) recommended that corticosteroids (e.g. dexamethasone, hydrocortisone, or prednisone) be administered orally or intravenously to treat severe or critical patients with COVID-19.
At the same time, it discourages the use of corticosteroids in patients with symptoms of this disease that are not severe, unless they are already taking them to treat other ailments.
Is dexamethasone safe?
The WHO states that treatment with dexamethasone is generally safe.
The benefits outweigh the possible risks, particularly in patients with severe forms of pneumonia, but the benefits are lower in the rest of the patients.
Because of the short duration of treatment, even at high doses, corticosteroids are not associated with serious side effects.
The possible increase in blood glucose levels (hyperglycaemia) is temporary.
Although it may be useful in the treatment for the anti-inflammatory effect of the drug, WHO has emphasized that the primary responsibility for its optimal effects lies with judicial use by medical staff.
Why should this medicine not be abused?
However, prolonged use (i.e., for more than two weeks) may be associated with adverse events such as glaucoma, cataracts, fluid retention, hypertension, psychological effects (such as mood changes, memory problems, confusion or irritability), weight gain or increased risk of infection and osteoporosis.
Although side effects of this medicine are not common, they may occur.
Therefore, it is important to be alert if any of these signs or symptoms occur: stomach malaise, stomach irritation, vomiting, headache (headache), dizziness, insomnia, agitation, depression, anxiety, acne, increased hair growth, ease of developing bruising, irregular or absent menstruation.
What do experts say?
One of the concerns of health institutions is associated with the use of dexamethasone in "combos" with other drugs such as ivermectin, a veterinary antiparasitic and anti-malaria drug, whose efficacy is not proven or endorsed by the WHO for COVID-19, and which, however, national or local governments such as Ecuador, Peru, Bolivia and the city of Cali in Colombia have begun to recommend.
In response, the Pan American Health Organization (PAHO) launched educational campaigns on social media (RRSS) on the use of dexamethasone.
The message is very simple: self-medication puts your health at risk.
This type of treatment, which is still experimental and was developed or designed while a COVID-19 vaccine was being developed, must be implemented, exclusively under medical authorization and supervision.
Sources
What is Dexamethasone, the first drug that can save the lives of serious coronavirus patients - The Third