French scientists study whether nicotine protects against coronavirus
Research to deal with coronovarius can sometimes run along unexplored paths.
This is what is happening in France, specifically in the Paris hospital of Pitié Salpetrière, where a group of researchers in the field of internal medicine, led by Neuorobiologist Jean-Pierre Changeux, a member of the French Academy of Sciences, is trying to determine whether nicotine serves a protective function against coronavirus.
There's nothing there.
The initiative is part of another previous study by the hospital itself which found that there was a low proportion of smokers among those infected, after analyzing 480 patients in French prisons and psychiatric centres, a population with special problems of tobacco addiction.
We found that there are only 5% of smokers who are out, a very low percentage.
In short, we have 80% fewer smokers in COVID patients than in the general population of the same sex and age, "said internist Zahir Amoura, one of the study's managers, to France Inter.
For his part, Changeux, a specialist in nicotinic receptors, raises the possibility that nicotine could slow the virus by preventing it from penetrating cells, which would explain the low number of smokers among coronavirus patients.
"We assume that the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor plays a key role in the physiology of COVID-19 infection and could represent a goal for the prevention and control of infection," notes the article published by the Academy of Sciences.
 # COVID19 # coronavirus: Researchers publish an article in the Proceedings of the Academy of Sciences' Biology that postulates a central role of the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor in the propagation and physiolopathology of Covid-19  https: / / t.co / jdP1bOLpmp pic.twitter.com / qUOBsNHmQa - Academy of Sciences (@ Academy of Sciences) April 22, 2020
Another, though less likely, hypothesis that French experts are working on is that nicotine would also reduce the excessive immune response that occurs in the most serious cases of COVID-19.
New clinical trial
So Changeux and his team have designed a clinical trial that will soon distribute patches of nicotine at different doses to health personnel in a preventive manner, to hospitalized patients to see if symptoms decrease, and to patients in intensive care to see if inflammation decreases.
In any case, to demonstrate the supposed protective effect of nicotine against coronavirus, we would enter a paradoxical scenario in which something extremely harmful such as the taboo habit and nicotine, an addictive high-dose suntan, could be somewhat ulcerative.
At least a disturbing situation.
Tobacco is the number one killer.
Indeed, the French health minister himself, Olivier Véran, said it was an "interesting" study, but asked for caution.
Careful, that doesn't mean tobacco protects.
Tobacco kills and causes more than 70,000 deaths a year in France.
But it means that there is an interesting track, along with other clinical research tracks, that seeks to understand why in the biochemical mechanism of nicotine could be a marker of resistance to this epidemic, "Véran said.
However, he asked the population not to self-medicate or consume nicotine, and clarified that in studies against coronavirus no door is closed, "not even this one, especially when it is run by highly solvable teams, although it is a simple hypothesis."
But we can't recommence taking this substance.
Smokers have severe forms of coronavirus.
The damage caused by chronic smoking in the lungs can prolong the duration of care and significantly increase mortality, "he explains.
For the sake of clarity, it is not recommended that people continue to smoke.
Tobacco is the number one killer in France.
Those who want to quit should keep trying, "she concludes.
The World Health Organization's Position
Smokers are likely to be more vulnerable to COVID-19, as smoking involves sticking fingers (and cigarettes, which may be contaminated) to the lips, increasing the possibility of transmission of the virus from hand to mouth.
Smokers may also suffer from lung disease or reduced lung capacity, which greatly increases the risk of serious illness.
Certain devices used for smoking, such as water pipes, often involve the sharing of crutches and hoses, which may facilitate the transmission of COVID-19 in community and social settings.
Conditions that increase the need for oxygen or reduce the body's ability to use it properly lead to an increased risk of severe lung conditions such as pneumonia, "says WHO.