No confinements but intensive contact tracing: Taiwan's strategy to beat COVID-19
The Taiwanese government's state policies against coronavirus have been effective, with only 11 deaths from the virus since the beginning of the pandemic (REUTERS).
In Taiwan during 2020 life was, on average, "normal."
There were weddings, parties, concerts, fairs and sports.
This situation was different from the rest of the world where that "normality" was disrupted by coronavirus and confinement, covers and social distance were the "new" normality.
Only 11 people have died of COVID-19 in the small island nation 180 km east of China since the beginning of the pandemic, an impressive feat for a country that has never been confined.
With one of the world's lowest COVID-19 per capita rates, Taiwan has received unanimous applause for its management of the pandemic.
At the beginning of the pandemic, it was considered a high-risk country for COVID-19 due to its proximity to China and frequent travel between the two countries.
This, coupled with a history of SARS in 2003 that was not particularly well managed, forced the Taiwanese government to act quickly to close its borders.
On January 20, 2020, he created a Central Epidemic Command to coordinate cooperation between different government ministries and agencies, and between government and companies.
Recently, a new study published in the
examined in more depth why Taiwan has done so well in the fight against COVID-19.
The authors of the research, from various health institutes and hospitals in Taiwan and the United States, compared the estimated effectiveness of two types of policies in the first months of the pandemic: case-based measures and population-based measures.
When the first news of an unidentified virus arrived in the Chinese city of Wuhan and unconfirmed reports of patients who had to be isolated, Taiwan activated its Central Epidemic Command Center which coordinates different ministries in case of emergency (REUTERS)
The first include testing for infected people, isolation of positive cases, contact tracing, and 14-day quarantine of close contacts.
And the latter included wearing masks, personal hygiene, and social estrangement.
The effects of these measures were quantified by estimating the effective number of reproduction (R number), a way of qualifying the propagation capacity of an infectious disease.
An R number greater than 1 means that the virus will continue to spread and outbreaks will continue.
An R number less than 1 means that the number of cases will begin to decrease.
While previous studies in other countries have simulated hypothetical scenarios, this work combined transmission modeling with detailed real data to estimate efficacy.
The authors collected data on 158 cases between January 10 and June 1, 2020 from the Taiwan Centers for Disease Control.
The data referred to local infections, confirmed groups, and imported cases from people who entered Taiwan before March 21, 2020.
They then compared the results they found in Taiwan with an R of 2.5, based on the estimated equivalent number in neighboring China at the beginning of their COVID-19 outbreak.
The study found that case-based policies alone, such as contact tracing and quarantine, could reduce the R number from 2.5 to 1.53.
Containment was the most important factor in reducing the R number.
Case-based interventions could not substantially prevent transmission from one person to another, but did reduce transmission after a third or fourth person, provided that those close contacts were quarantined.
Population-based measures, such as social estrangement and masquerades, reduced the R number from 2.5 to 1.3.
The authors concluded that the combination of case-based and population-based measures led to Taiwan's success in containing COVID-19 (REUTERS)
The authors concluded that the combination of case-based and population-based measures led to Taiwan's success in containing COVID-19.
The combination of both approaches led to an R number, estimated by two different methods, of 0.82 and even 0.62.
They also found that population-based measures were needed to achieve containment, although the number of circulating infections was small.
Neither approach would have been sufficient on its own, even in a country with an effective public health system and a sophisticated contact tracing system.
Recognizing that all models make assumptions, and this analysis is no different, the paper confirms that the entire set of public health measures that we have been using in a fairly consistent way around the world - varying degrees of temporality and rigor - have been necessary.
However, it should be noted that the results of the study reflect a period in which new variants with greater transmissibility were not a problem.
Taiwan is an island nation with the ability to control the introduction of new cases through border control, and the authors acknowledge that the findings of this study may not be fully applicable to other countries.
This is why researchers focused on the effectiveness of case-based and population-based interventions on local transmission, rather than on border controls on the number of cases imported from COVID-19.
The authors concluded that intensive contact tracing is not possible when public health systems are overloaded.
This never happened in Taiwan due to the success of their strategies.
Finally, the document found similar results for the seven and 14-day quarantine and suggests that the confinement period could be shortened.
Some countries are considering this possibility, including the United States, but to date it has not been widely introduced.
HAS ADOPTED THIS DECISION: