Recommendations and precautions regarding the use of gloves to prevent coronavirus infections
Wear gloves, yes or no?
It is a very common question and to resolve it, the Ministry of Health has published an infograph in which it specifies in which cases the use of gloves is recommended and how to make it safe.
According to the Ministry of Health, the use of gloves is not recommended to the general population at street exits as "proper and frequent hand cleaning (here we explain how to do it) is more effective" as a protective measure for several reasons:
Using gloves for a long time makes them dirty and can contaminate themselves.
You can get infected if you touch your face with contaminated gloves.
Removing gloves without contaminating hands is not easy.
For these reasons, and in any case, it is recommended to wash your hands well also after using gloves.
When it is necessary to use gloves to wear and throw it is always to touch fruit and vegetables when making the purchase in a trade "as has been done so far."
Here we tell you this and other security measures that you must take into account when you go out to make the purchase.
These health recommendations apply to the general population on their street trips.
In the workplace, specific recommendations should be followed in each case.
It is important to keep in mind that even if we wear gloves, we should not neglect other precautions, such as washing hands, covering your elbow when coughing or sneezing, and keeping away from other people.
The main risk of wearing gloves is precisely a false sense of security that makes us relax precauctioning, ultimately favouring bad practices and contagion.
On May 17, the director of the Center for the Coordination of Alerts and Health Emergencies, Fernando Simón, warned that wearing gloves is "dangerous if you don't do very well," as for example touching your face with dirty gloves is the same as not wearing gloves, and that the most important thing is still washing your hands very well and keeping your distance.
* We have updated this piece on May 18 to include the words of Fernando Simón.