Experts clamor against the study on street dogs and COVID-19
They see nothing in the study that supports this assumption and are concerned that this document has been published in a scientific journal.
 Many experts do not understand how the author of the study has been able to conclude that COVID-19 coronavirus comes from dogs.
You see nothing in your research that supports this assumption.
Many media outlets have echoed a study published in Molecular Biology and Evolution that suggests the possible origin of SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes COVID-19, to street dogs.
A news that has surprised many experts, "I find it difficult to understand how the author has been able to conclude from this study, or to make a hypothesis, that the virus that causes COVID-19 may have evolved through dogs.
There is too much inference and too little direct data.
I see nothing in this document that supports this assumption and I am concerned that this document has been published in this magazine.
I don't think any dog owner should worry as a result of this work, "says James Wood, head of the Department of Veterinary Medicine and an infection and disease control researcher at the University of Cambridge.
Paul Digard, Professor of Virology at the Roslin Institute at the University of Edinburgh, notes that "Dr. Xia's research takes a very limited approach to examining the SARS-CoV-2 sequence in search of clues about its origin that do not provide convincing support for the hypothesis that dogs were the source of the virus.
The investigation certainly does not justify the holder of the press release (... "street dogs as the possible origin of SARS-CoV-2...") "
Ben Neuman, head of the Department of Biological Sciences at Texas A University and visiting professor at the University of Reading, states that "the conclusion that cats or dogs were involved as an intermediate host for SARS-CoV-2 is highly speculative and should not be presented as a fact.
Some new data will be needed to finally solve the mystery of the origin of SARS-CoV-2, but this study is based on a new analysis of old data without any new data.
This study has similarities to an earlier article that incorrectly identified the origin of SARS-CoV-2 in snakes. "
The president of the British Veterinary Association (BVA), Daniella Dos Santos, states that "this research is purely theoretical and the author himself points out that to date there is no evidence that dogs can replicate or eliminate the virus that causes COVID-19.
We urge extreme caution in interpreting it as something more than a reminder that work is being done to consider the origins of the virus. "
It should also be remembered that a recent study in dogs found that the virus replicates very poorly in dogs, indicating that they are likely to be a dead end for transmission.
For the time being, major animal health agencies, such as the OIE or WSAVA, insist that there is no reason to worry about the relationship between pets and coronavirus.
This Friday 17th will be a webinar organized by the World Association of Small Animal Veterinarians (WSAVA), supported by Purina, where all these issues will be discussed.
Speakers will be Dr. Vanessa Barrs (Professor of Animal Health Company, University of Hong Kong), Dr. Michael Lappin (WSAVA One Health Committee member) and Dr. Shane Ryan (WSAVA President).