A former British spy insists that the coronavirus was created in Wuhan
The former head of British intelligence said the coronavirus escaped from a Wuhan laboratory
Conspiracy theories about the origin of the coronavirus continue to accumulate, as dominoes of a geopolitical and narrative battle between the United States and China.
Now, the one who shot his darts at Beijing was Richard Dearlove, a former British intelligence chief, who again insisted that Sars-CoV-2 escaped from a Wuhan laboratory, despite the World Health Organization (WHO) and the international scientific community reporting that the virus was not genetically manipulated.
The former head of MI6, the Secret Intelligence Service of the United Kingdom, was based on a supposed classified document to which he would have had access.
Dearlove stated that the deadly strain did not arise naturally, but that scientists can be involved in its genetic sequence.
The spy cited a study by Professor Angus Dalgleish of St George's Hospital, University of London, and Norwegian virologist Birger Sorensen, who claims to have found "sections inserted and placed on the surface of the SARS-CoV-2 spike" that could explain how the virus binds to human cells.
In an interview with the British newspaper The Telegraph, Dearlove stated that the report would subscribe to the theory that China is blamed for the origin of the virus, a hypothesis promoted by Donald Trump and his allies but denied by President Xi Jinping.
The director of the Wuhan Institute of Virology, Wang Yanyi, denied the accusations.
The Chinese official admitted that she has three live strains of bat coronavirus, but none correspond to Covid-19.
"Like everyone else, we didn't even know the virus existed," he told Chinese public television CGTN. "So how could he have escaped from our lab?
, "he questioned, saying the suspicions were a" pure invention. "
"We have three strains of live viruses," Wang said.
"But the similarity with the Covid-19 disease virus is only 79.8%," he added.
For most scientists, the new coronavirus was transmitted to man by an animal.
The most accepted hypothesis holds that this would have occurred in a market in Wuhan city where live wild animals are sold.
According to a paper published by biologist Kristian Anderson in the journal Nature Medicine, "there is strong evidence that SARS-CoV2 is not a product of manipulation" and that it "is unlikely" to have originated in a laboratory.
While China initially silenced doctors who warned about the severity of the coronavirus and failed to alert the international community in time, there is no evidence endorsed by the WHO and the international scientific community on the genetic manipulation of the virus.