Coronavirus: Is the origin of Covid-19 in a Chinese laboratory in 2015?
I think it was created in the Wuhan lab, among other things, because today we know, this very night they 've given plausible names and records that it' s SARS Covid 2, not 19.
There are statements from different countries, they 've tracked scientists, and yes, if it' s been created in the lab by introducing proteins.
What those who have uncovered this believe is that it escapes from their hands, whether by injecting it into a laboratory animal, etc.
They are people with documents, certifications, testimony statements and TV.
This is clear, that no one disputes that the origin is Wuhan. The perfect excuse is the animal market.
In my opinion, the virus not only comes from the Wuhan laboratory, but it is also likely to be a biological weapon for supremacy after we overcome what has been called the "Third World War."
That is obvious, and please explain to me why the Chinese have taken a step ahead of the world in fighting the pandemic.
Its low number of deaths and its effectiveness in containing the virus relative to other countries are grounds for suspicion.
Their fewer than 5,000 deaths for a population of 1.4 billion is indicative that they were aware of the impact and its palliatives.
They compare the number of inhabitants and the incidence of the pandemic in China, Europe and the United States.
Who knows what medicine the Chinese will have used to have the virus now virtually eradicated in a crowded country.
And the question of the million is... what is the result of this Third World War?
The result is a recession in Europe and the United States that, according to expert economists, is comparable to that of the early 20th century, and on the other hand, with production at maximum yield we have a great Chinese power, which has taken supreme control of the battle to save us all...
Worst of all, no government can now support this theory and question China, because it is the Chinese who are saving us, and their export has been vital to us for years.
THE MEDIA IS NOT DANCING THE TALL I honestly cannot understand because the newspapers and most of the press in Spain omit very important information about the origin and intentions of this pandemic.
They only report applause, violinists on balconies, children on bicycles, yes or no masks, and statistics that do not honor the truth...
No attention is being paid to the suspicions of corruption that are evident in the statements by so many countries such as Japan and the United States accusing the WHO of being sold to China...
Furthermore, we have a hit but prestigious virologist who is Premio Novel, in addition to being also Premio Prince de Asturias and discoverer of VHI-1, who claims that COVID-19 is created in the Wuhan laboratory and as evidence adds that VHI-1 sequence has been added to this virus...
We are faced with a virus that mutates in its replicas and generates errors in its RNA chain showing symptoms of self-destruction, but not without first having made us shudder at the terror so that we can see in the vaccine the salvation of humanity................
The great memory of the STATISTICS made us study for years to now treat us like fools...
Tell me what you can call him. "
Containers
a variable that is actually called
Registered cases
... "The difference between the two concepts is abysmal...
On the other hand, we see that conclusions are drawn between the variables. "
Registered cases
y la
mortality
"when the link between the two is only subjective to the number of cases that have been registered...
I've read barbarities like this "
Two out of three people infected by the virus go forward
... "
Statements that are shameful because there is no data to tell us what the number of actual infections is, because many have been asymptomatic or have overcome the disease in their homes without leaving any record of it anywhere.
But no one bothers to show us a real comparison of the virus's mortality indices by country, which is as simple as extracting the death toll per 100,000 inhabitants from their total population.
And we don't even know how many tests are done to get the variable. "
Cases registered or detected
"missing the truth when we are offered the positive rebound data without telling us if this is really due to a test rebound...
Example of a press owner:
- "Today is the highest number of positive since the beginning of the pandemic with 838 infections"
To give value to this press owner we would have to know how many tests have been carried out in the various situations described, because obviously if we carried out 4 tests tomorrow we would conclude that the pandemic has been completely eradicated, but if we carried out 10 million tests otherwise the increase of positive to alarm levels would be triggered...
I have to say that the statistics would be real if what we are offered is an index extracted from the total of positives, but extracted from the average for every 100 tests performed... In that case we could talk about reversals or stability in the pandemic and citizens would know what the evolution is.
Because as long as this is not done, the "positives" will only be a subjective data to the number of tests performed................
CHINA BAJO SOSPECHA What a few days ago we called "conspiranoia," today has become a perfectly credible "hypothesis"... And it is that we have officials from several countries suspicious and demanding explanations from China.
At the head is the United States threatening to retaliate if it discovers that the virus was intentional.
On the other hand, we have France, which is reluctant about the origin of this pandemic.
Australia also requests an independent investigation which is being denied by China.
And so dishonourable is the fact that the United Kingdom and Germany are also asking China to be transparent.
Obviously, although there is no evidence for some scientists that the virus originated in a laboratory, the lack of such evidence does not rule out the possibility either.
China lies, at this point it seems to me to be a lie that there are people who believe what the Chinese government says.
They are neither the dead nor the real infected.
Besides, I see evidence more than founded to suspect that it was them, I'm not saying they did it on purpose, that's another thing, here I include more to think it was an accident.
There are many unanswered questions, so why hide them?
They put in jail whoever sounded the alarm and branded him a traitor, if the virus were natural they would have no problem communicating it to the international community.
You remember Chernovil?
It was other countries that detected the radioactive leak, the Russians were silent as dead.
On the other hand, the CIA has been reporting for a long time that that lab (300 meters from the market) has many security failures and that very dangerous things are done there.
The bat in question is 800 km from that market, in addition to wintering and in addition the market SOLO VENDE MARISCO.
Do you understand what I mean?
Friends, White and in a bottle.
COVID-19 may not be the virus that was mentioned in that note, but neither will anyone fall into the naivety that, in view of the events, any responsible laboratory would articulate the means at its disposal to conceal its responsibility.
I want to believe that virologist Roberto Burioni has no connection with experiments, otherwise his interest would be more than clear.
In any case, we are not talking about "conspiranoia," but about people who know perfectly well that the world and the pharmaceutical industry are not a high school for innocent young women, can the public be blamed for suspicion? Certainly not.
The flu virus changes it every year to make it more virulent, to make new vaccines so they make money without shame, who believes that nature will scatter a virus so far from nothing?
? I don't think it is so feasible that tomorrow we are all millionaires, laboratories are armored with political power that is the key so it is never admitted that I came out of a laboratory but everything that has been done for years has come out of laboratories for many things that were previously unknown!!
This is like the machinery of government, telling them what 's true and not true.
This virus is a laboratory virus that doesn 't see that' s silly, another thing is that logically its origin is the mosquito net, it 's the raw material they' ve used.
There 's a lot of evidence pointing to that, but the propaganda machinery is disputing that that' s true, but they can 't do what' s obvious.
The fact that in Wuhan where there is a lab that works with this kind of virus gives rise to suspicion.
It 's hard to establish the origin, at the moment there' s no definite conclusion, why couldn 't it come out of there?
Nothing hidden that cannot be discovered in the world, sooner or later, sooner or later we will know whether covid-19 is the product of chance, or the product of the most infamous minds that exist on this planet.
Because there are wicked people who want to reach the total domination of humanity, in every way.
And those who think this way are from the US, and because not China either, these are in the grip of who the world is going to be.
Human beings from other nations are still being used as guinea pigs, presidents are simply puppets of corrupt mafias, who plot day and night to take greater advantage of things.
But of one thing I am more than sure, that everyone who acts in the displeasure of others, certainly nature will charge them but very expensive.
Keep it safe.
Because nothing in this world falls into a broken sack, Biblical says; everything that sows will reap also; physically every action provokes a reaction; metaphysically every effect has a cause.
greetings
We live in a world full of very strange "accidents," which is by chance that in 2015 we are talking about this subject and with that approach, and that in 2020 we are facing a pandemic with precisely those characteristics.
What a coincidence that a Chinese laboratory is mentioned and that Wuhan, the city where the Covid-19 outbreak started, has a biosecurity laboratory where highly dangerous viruses are tested.
You do not believe that there are many "accidents" or will be rather CAUSALIDADES with a very defined origin.
The mere fact that a laboratory is allowed to genetically manipulate these highly dangerous viruses and MORTIFERS is already a criminal act, since no one is exempt from making mistakes and if by mistake a virus of these escapes from a laboratory, it is obvious that no one is going to take responsibility.
It is very strange that until a few decades ago no one was concerned about the emergence of these "strange" viruses because although they have always existed perhaps because there was no interaction with them or genetic manipulation, this did not allow them to "awaken" and mutate.
To conclude, the "exotic" gastronomic customs of the Asian peoples with emphasis on those of China are not from now on coming from ancestral roots, so I mean that it is very strange that so many viruses of this country have so far emerged by "natural" mutations being that they have ALWAYS consumed this kind of wild species.
They may call us "conspirators," but the worst blind one is the one who doesn't want to see, the reality that surrounds him.
Exactly.
When this comes up, the Chinese government keeps it hidden. Why?
If they were not to blame, why put them in jail and charge doctors who sounded the alarm with antipatriotism?
They didn 't allow them to go in and investigate doctors from the WHO, why?
Very simple they had something to hide, it 's so clear it' s insulting to deny it.
Once this is out of their hands and has hundreds of thousands of infected and dead he has no choice but to confess the problem, but of course they are not to blame this is something "natural..."
On the other hand, in a few days the entire genome of the virus is published and available in record time and ready to distribute hundreds of thousands of pcr tests.
And now the Chinese want us to believe that a bat that lives 500 miles from Wuhan and that the time it appears to be wintering in deep caves has been sold in a shellfish market (where neither bats nor mammals are sold) and that after thousands of years it is eating bats that have now infected a human, because it is.
Instead, they try to make it impossible for us to see that a laboratory, denounced by the CIA as unsafe, for level 4 biosecurity that says to have and know that they genetically treat viruses like the bat to use it as a biological weapon and that it is also 300 meters from the famous market has not been the most likely cause.
White and in a bottle.
The Chinese know that if this is discovered, their pettiness would be unimaginable, so they pay, deny, and deny even the explanation they give to parbulite children.
You wouldn't believe the "scientists" who say it's natural they're stuck, the Chinese are spending a lot to cover their mouths and buy wills.
Sooner or later, everything will come to light.
We 'll see if they take it or not, that' s another thing, the world in general is very dependent on China, there are many interests.
The Cambridge thesis has come out, the origin of Covid19 takes place in America and Australia, the type A root, the one that propagated in Wuhan mutated, which is type B.
There's a lot of fake news from the Western media, so don't let them brainwash you.
But the truth is, you've reasoned very well.
Without the scientific data that belies the news, I don 't believe it very much... Since 2015, you' ve given them time to mutate the virus as much as you want.
Of course, to say otherwise is much more "scientific."
To say otherwise doesn 't have to be scientific, the one that says it' s not true is the one that has to prove, and those are the ones who have denied the creation of that virus in the lab.
Because, of course, you contradict with your statement someone who wants to be justified, does not impose their reason.
Just don't believe the article.