What to Know About Hydrochloroquine
https: / / www.nytimes.com / es / 2020 / 05 / 19 / espanol / plaquenil-hydroxychloroquina-Trump-que-es.html
This is the data on the drug that Donald Trump has promoted to fight COVID-19, despite warnings from the Food and Drug Administration that it can cause heart problems.
US President Donald Trump revealed on Monday, May 18, that he is taking a malaria drug as a preventive measure against coronavirus, the same drug he has been promoting for two months with little evidence of efficacy and despite several warnings about dangerous side effects.
The drug, hydroxychloroquine, has been invoked repeatedly by Trump since March during White House briefing sessions on the coronavirus pandemic, despite the reservations of doctors and scientists, including some advising the president.
He has called the drug, which has been promoted by some conservative analysts, a "turning point."
Trump said he started taking a pill once a day a week and a half ago.
It was not immediately clear whether Trump began the regime in response to two members of the White House staff - one of the president's personal aides and Katie Miller, Vice President Mike Pence's spokesperson - giving a positive response to the virus.
And last week, the head of a federal agency that had been involved in developing a coronavirus vaccine testified before the United States Congress.
he had been removed from office because he had pressed for rigorous scrutiny of hydroxychloroquine.
The official, Rick Bright, who headed the Advanced Biomedical Research and Development Authority, also said he was pressured to direct money toward hydroxychloroquine.
This is what we know about the drug:
What is hydroxychloroquine?
Hydrochloroquine is a prescription drug that was approved decades ago to treat malaria.
It is also used to treat autoimmune diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis and lupus.
It is sometimes known by its trade name, Plaquenil, and is closely related to chloroquine, which is also used to treat malaria.
Why has hydroxychloroquine been considered a possible treatment for coronavirus?
There are several reasons.
A promising laboratory study, with cultured cells, found that chloroquine could prevent coronavirus from invading cells, which it must do to replicate and cause the disease.
However, drugs that beat viruses in test tubes or petri dishes do not always work in the human body, and studies of hydroxychloroquine have found that it could not prevent or treat influenza and other viral diseases.
Reports from doctors in China and France have said that hydroxychloroquine, sometimes combined with the antibiotic azithromycin, seems to help patients.
But those studies were small and did not use adequate control groups: patients carefully selected to match those in the experimental group but not given the drug being tested.
And, since then, the French study has been discredited: the scientific group supervising the magazine where it was published said it did not meet its standards.
A study in China did include a control group and suggested that hydroxychloroquine might help patients with mild cases of COVID-19, the disease caused by coronavirus.
But that study had limitations: it was also small, with a total of 62 patients, and they were given several other drugs besides hydroxychloroquine.
Doctors evaluating the results knew which patients were being treated, and that information could have influenced their judgment.
Even if the findings are maintained, they will apply only to people who are slightly ill.
And the researchers themselves said that more studies were needed.
Another reason the drug has been considered for coronavirus patients is that it can control the hyperactive immune system, so it is used to treat lupus and rheumatoid arthritis.
In some severe cases of COVID-19, the immune system appears to work on any machine and cause inflammation that can damage the lungs and other organs.
Doctors hope that hydroxychloroquine can soothe the condition - sometimes called a "cytokine storm" - but so far there is no evidence that it does.
Can hydroxychloroquine protect you from contracting the virus?
There is no evidence that hydroxychloroquine can protect against coronavirus infection.
However, researchers at the University of Minnesota and the Henry Ford Health System in Detroit are testing the drug in people living with coronavirus patients to see if it can protect them.
Is hydroxychloroquine approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA)?
Yes, but for malaria, lupus and rheumatoid arthritis, not for COVID-19.
For decades, doctors have been allowed to legally prescribe it for any condition in which they believe it can help, a practice called uncontemplated use.
But the FDA issued a safety warning on April 24 for hydroxychloroquine, which it said could cause dangerous heart rate abnormalities in coronavirus patients.
The drug should only be used in clinical trials or in hospitals where patients can be closely monitored for heart problems, the FDA said.
In late March, the FDA obtained emergency approval to allow hospitals to use hydroxychloroquine from the national reserve to treat patients who would otherwise not qualify for a clinical trial.
Under its approval, patients and their families will receive information about the drug, and hospitals have to track information about patients who received it, including their health condition and serious side effects.
But FDA authorization for emergency use is not equivalent to meeting U.S. federal requirements, including scientific evidence through trials, which would consider hydroxychloroquine as a proven treatment against the virus.
Due to high demand for hydroxychloroquine, some states such as New York have ordered pharmacists to issue prescriptions only for FDA-approved medical uses or for people involved in clinical trials.
Prescriptions for the drug have increased since Trump began promoting it.
Is hydroxychloroquine now being administered to coronavirus patients?
Yes, I do.
At the beginning of the epidemic, many hospitals began giving it to patients because there was no proven treatment, and they hoped it would help.
Clinical trials with control groups have begun worldwide.
A national trial began on April 2 in the United States; it had planned to enroll 510 patients in 44 medical centers.
Researchers say that these studies are essential to finding out if the drug works against coronavirus.
If it does not, time and money can be redirected to other potential treatments.
Is there any danger in taking hydroxychloroquine?
Like any medication, it may have side effects.
It is not safe for people who have abnormalities in their heart rate, eye problems involving the retina, or liver or kidney diseases.
Other possible side effects include nausea, diarrhea, mood changes and skin rash.
The leaders of three professional cardiology societies warned on April 8, in Circulation magazine, that hydroxychloroquine and azithromycin could cause dangerous heart rate disruptions, and wrote: "There is very limited data to evaluate the safety of combined therapy."
In particular, it is considered relatively safe for people who do not have underlying diseases that the drug is known to worsen.
But it is not known whether hydroxychloroquine is safe for severely ill COVID-19 patients, who may have organ damage from the virus.
If I can get hydroxychloroquine, should I take it to prevent coronavirus infection?
No, especially not without consulting a doctor who knows your medical history and what other medications you are taking.
There's no proof it works.
And if it 's sold on the street or on the Internet, it can be false or unsafe.
A man in Arizona over 60 died in March after swallowing an aquarium cleaning product that had chloroquine on his label.
He and his wife, who became seriously ill, thought that the product would protect them from the virus.
At this point, the best way to avoid infection is to practice social estrangement and quarantine measures recommended by public health authorities.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention also recommend that people wear fabric masks in public and wash their hands regularly.
Denise Grady has been a science reporter for The Times since 1998.
He wrote Deadly Invaders, a book about emerging viruses.
@ nytDeniseGrady Katie Thomas covers the health care business, with a focus on the pharmaceutical industry.
She started in the Times in 2008 as a sports reporter.
@katie _ thomas Neil Vigdor is a last-minute news reporter in the Express section.
He previously covered Connecticut politics for the Hartford Courant.
@gettFacebook