Coronavirus: "It's not a laboratory creation" how a group of scientists managed to prove the natural origin of the virus that causes COVID-19
The COVID-19 pandemic, which has already left more than a million people infected and more than 60,000 dead, has transformed the world as we know it.
And, perhaps inevitably because of its tremendous impact, it has fueled a series of conspiracy theories that emerged shortly after the first cases were made public in China in January this year.
Most of them focus on two hypotheses: the first, that the new coronavirus was created in a Chinese laboratory and spread as a biological weapon against other powers.
And the second, that the same synthetic virus had escaped, as a result of the negligence of Chinese researchers, and thus began to spread around the world.
Proponents argue that synthetic viruses exist - necessary for scientific research - and that laboratory leaks have been reported in the past as being of high safety.
Furthermore, in Wuhan, the Chinese city where the pandemic originated, there is a virology institute that contains several high-mortality viruses and is located near the market identified as the initial focus of the pandemic.
But a group of scientists have just denied these beliefs.
The researchers succeeded in establishing that SARS-CoV-2 (the name of the virus that causes COVID-19) is not a human invention, but a product of nature.
SARS-CoV-2 has no synthetic origin, as some conspiracy theories suggested, but is natural.
"We were able to determine, from decoding the genetic material of the new coronavirus, that it is not a laboratory creation, but a product of natural evolution," Dr. Robert E. Garry, a professor at Tulane University, USA, and a member of the research team told BBC World.
This claim undermines the theory that the new coronavirus is a "biological weapon" created by man.
"We were able to establish that, based on the genetic characteristics of SARS-CoV-2, it is impossible that someone could have created it in a laboratory," he added.
And to reach that conclusion, they had to analyze the genetic material of the new coronavirus and compare it with the viruses that are currently in virology laboratories.
Genetic map
At the beginning of the pandemic, all was confusion: it was not very well known what was causing the fatal flushes in dozens of patients in China.
Then the picture was clear: it was established that it was a new virus, SARS-CoV-2.
But where did it come from?
As the research team, led by California-based infectologist Kristian Andersen and with experts from different countries, pointed out, their goal was to dismantle from the outset some of the theories that pointed to a premeditation in the creation of the pandemic.
In other words, that the man was involved in it.
If this was a laboratory construction, a virus previously known as a template would have to have been used.
The closest virus to SARS-CoV-2 is a bat virus that was sequenced after the pandemic began, "Garry noted.
Also, that bat virus is only 96% similar to SARS-CoV-2.
It is not possible to complete that genetic distance (4%) in a laboratory, "the scientist added.
After several analyses by researchers, the team came to the "firm conclusion" that the new virus had a totally natural origin, as they pointed out in the results of their trial, published under the title "An Approach to the Origin of SARS-CoV-2" in the March issue of Nature Medicine.
"We compared all the viruses that could serve as a template, including those that were found in pangolin and bats, and computer calculations indicate that a virus that had this capacity for infection could not have been created in a laboratory," the researcher explained.
"Nature found a better way than anyone a human could have designed," added Garry.
For the expert and his team, in addition to dismissing conspiracy theories about the origin and intent of the virus, the findings of the research are fundamental to understanding how this type of virus evolves.
"We are now aware that there is a new possible way to generate coronaviruses that can affect humans: the combination of two coronaviruses in nature," Garry said.
We already know that classic SARS-CoV and MERS - another virus that causes respiratory disorders - jump from animals to humans unchanged.
We now also know that animal coronaviruses can recombine to make new coronaviruses that pose pandemic threats, as we are seeing, "he explained.
He concluded, "Characterizing coronaviruses in animals, especially bats, is a high priority."
The city of Wuhan became the source of the Covid-19 pandemic, but also the center of many theories about the possible reasons for the virus's appearance.
Other findings
This finding by Andersen's team was validated by other scientists who were not part of the research.
"The report talks about an inverse genetic system, which is basically how the virus can be observed and then modified," Josie Golding, head of epidemiology for the Wellcome Trust, told the British newspaper The Telegraph.
But because of the way this virus has evolved, none of the known reverse genetic systems apply.
This puts an end to any speculation about deliberate genetic engineering, "he added.
The findings allowed researchers to provide further clues to the theory that the virus was transmitted from animals to men.
"We can suggest, from what we have found in our analyses, two scenarios about the origin of the virus: first, that there might be a process of natural selection in an animal host prior to zoonotic transfer (i.e., from animals to humans)," says the text published in Nature Medicine.
"And the second, that natural selection may have occurred in humans after zoonotic transfer, where a natural selection process may also occur during passage, which could have resulted in SARS-CoV-2," the report concludes.
(II)