The use of drugs such as azithromycin against COVID-19 is not yet safe
The country's health authorities have expressed concern, this time with recommendations from hospital centres as well.
In the course of the health emergency different doctors, half-studies, chains and disinformation have promoted the use of these medicines.
But so far they are in rigorous analysis to determine their effectiveness and thus treat patients who contracted the new virus without further compromising their health.
It should be remembered that azithromycin is an antibiotic whose purpose is to treat high and low bacterial respiratory infections, as well as to stop the growth of bacteria such as sinusitis, otitis media, and even treatment for pneumonia accompanied by other antibiotics in patients who so require it, explains Medlineplus from the U.S. National Library of Medicine.
But its use is not recommended for viral diseases, colds or influenza.
For its part, N-acetylcysteine is a mucolytic drug also used for respiratory diseases, whose components work to break the mucus and ease the bronchial secretions of the cold patient so that the patient can expect or expel them.
"But that does not mean that you will cut the course of the disease, it only relieves the secretions that the patient may have," adds Jorge Machado, president of the Colombian Association of Pharmacology.
It is for this reason that the authorities have spoken out in order to avoid possible deterioration in the infected patients.
In a statement issued at the end of August, the Colombian Association of Pharmacology (Asocolfar), the Research Group in Pharmacoepidemiology and Pharmacovigilance of Pereira Technological University and Audifarma set out a number of recommendations regarding the use of these drugs for COVID-19 cases.
According to the note, these warnings have been made for other drugs that also include azithromycin.
These organizations also report that the recommendations also come from some hospital centres.
Machado states that like ivermectin, interferon, chloroquine, and hydroxychloroquine, N-acetylcysteine is a molecule that does not yet have enough studies to prove its use as a preventative drug, as does azithromycin.
While the use of these drugs has been viralized in different social networks, there is no evidence of their effectiveness.
It should also be pointed out that the use of these drugs is based on positive results in vitro analysis, that is, results from laboratory tests and not tests with patients.
The results seem promising, but current evidence is considered insufficient to recommend its use on a large scale, much less as a treatment against COVID-19.
Remember that it is bad to take certain medications without knowing their true effectiveness against the recovery of a disease and it is a higher risk to do so without prior medical evaluation and prescription.
This is the case of N-acetylcysteine, which is registered as a mucolytic, and whose usefulness is limited to some very specific diseases.
Even its use is prohibited in patients under 2 years of age, "says Dr. Machado in the statement.
It adds that its effects may include hypersensitivity, vomiting and even increased airway obstruction (bronchospasm).
According to an article published on the website of the Rady Children's Hospital in Chicago, United States, taking antibiotics for other colds and viral diseases is useless and dangerous side effects can be presented, such as the development of bacteria that have become more difficult to destroy due to the selection of strains of such bacteria that can then resist treatment.
In the case of children, when they take antibiotics that are not needed, they may suffer stomach pains and diarrhea.
This is why antibiotics such as azithromycin and other drugs such as chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine, supplied individually or in combination, can enhance conditions such as heart disease, hydroelectrolyte disorders, chronic and hyper- and hypothyroidism.
In addition, a statement addressed to prescribers of the same institutions, there is a risk of producing an arrhythmia that becomes fatal due to prolongation of the QT interval, i.e. a measurement in the electrocardiogram of patients that tends to lengthen due to drug consumption.
The studies that are being
The Association's president recalls that remedies are being studied for their effectiveness against coronavirus, but so far there is nothing conclusive in their favor.
Although some of these drugs are over-the-counter, health authorities and national authorities are asking the population to avoid self-medicating as medical care is needed, especially with products on which the efficacy and safety of COVID-19 is not yet sufficiently proven or studied.
Prescriber doctors are advised to evaluate the recommendations given on the Internet to avoid the formulation of drugs that they believe will work when there is really no favorable outcome.
Clarification
As already stated in this explanatory note, the use of molecules such as N-acetylcysteine has been recommended in networks and other spaces for the treatment of COVID-19.
The effects and effectiveness of this in patients with the virus are still under study.
For his part, Dr. Carlos Arturo Guerrero, coordinator of the laboratory of molecular biology of the virus at the medical faculty of the National University of Colombia, has advanced research that would prove that the component can help in the treatment of SARS-CoV-2.
In addition, the Ministry of Health includes the mucolitics composed of this molecule within second-line drugs, i.e. those used as a priority in patients with suspected or confirmed infection.
Therefore, it is clear that the use of N-acetylcysteine is authorized in medical centers.
Despite this, the recommendation is clear.
Self-medication is not recommended under any circumstances, and should always be approached by a health expert for the care, treatment and containment of coronavirus, so we recommend following the instructions of the health authorities regarding the use of these drugs.
Remember that not all information published on the Internet is true, and many false news is circulating on social media.
Therefore, it is advisable not to share everything that comes to us and check the official sources first to avoid falling into misinformation and causing collective panic.
Citizens who are aware of any suspicious publication about coronavirus circulating on social networks or the Internet can write to WhatsApp line 314 3600052 or send an email to noseaping@vanguardia.com.
They can also write to us via Vanguardia.com's contact channels on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram.