Coronavirus: blood from cured patients could help save patients at risk
Antibodies in the blood of people who treat coronaviruses could be used to treat other patients, researchers in New York.
By Harold Moreno Luna
While different teams around the world are looking for a cure, effective treatment, or vaccine for SARS-CoV-2, the coronavirus that causes COVID-19, scientific studies propose to use blood with antibodies from people who have been cured in high-risk patients.
It is called passive antibody therapy (because external antibodies are received instead of producing their own) and, although its success against COVID-19 has not yet been verified, it has been applied before.
The use of plasma from cured people has had some success in previous outbreaks of SARS (Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome) and Ebola.
The scientific journal Nature revealed that hospitals in New York City, the epicenter of the outbreak in the United States, are preparing to test the blood of people who have recovered from covid-19 as a possible antidote to the disease.
The principle of this therapy is to use antibodies from those who have survived viral infection to help other people.
Plasma tests (without red blood cells) were performed in China, but the results are still considered preliminary.
When a body becomes infected, it begins to develop antibodies, which are proteins specifically designed to fight infection.
After a person is cured, antibodies can remain in the blood for months or even years.
Temporary Solution
Blood plasma treatment has the advantage of being immediate, while drugs and vaccines have a long time to develop, approve, and distribute.
On March 23, New York Governor Andrew Cuomo announced plans to use convalescent plasma to aid the response in this state, which has over 25,000 infections and 210 deaths.
"We think it's promising," he said.
At least two hospitals in New York City - Mount Sinai and Albert Einstein College of Medicine - are expected to start implementing it next week.
It all began with an article published in the Wall Street Journal on February 27, in which Johns Hopkins University immunologist Arturo Casadevall urged the use of blood serum with antibodies while developing drugs and vaccines.
The treatment dates back to the 1980s, and was widely used during the 1918 H1N1 influenza pandemic.
Possible, but under investigation
Casadevall's article motivated around 100 scientists to work and apply for authorisations to the FDA (Food and Drug Administration) and institutional review boards to implement treatment in the United States.
The FDA currently classifies this treatment as a "new drug in research" against coronavirus.
With your eventual (and perhaps very close) authorization, you will be able to continue the studies by applying plasma from survivors to people at high risk of repeated exposure to the virus, such as hospital workers.
In a research published in The Jounal of Clinical Investigation - JCI, Casadevall used as a precedent a clinical trial during the 2002 and 2003 SARS outbreaks in Hong Kong, in which 80 people treated within two weeks of presenting symptoms with serum of cured people showed a higher chance of being given than those not.
Before the United States, plasma tests were also performed in China.
However, the status and results of these studies have not yet been reported.
However, Liang Yu, a specialist in infectious diseases at Zhejiang University Medical School in China, told Nature that, in a preliminary study, doctors treated 13 people who were seriously ill with COVID-19 with convalescent plasma.
After several days, the virus no longer appeared to be circulating in patients, but in some patients conditions continued to deteriorate, suggesting that the disease might have been too advanced for this therapy to be effective.
Most had been ill for over two weeks.
Indeed, the US experience could open up a new way to address, at least, high-risk cases in other countries as pharmacological treatments are developed to deal with the pandemic.
Check out more of the Andean Agency's science, technology and innovation notes.
More in Andina:
? Educational resources, stickers with accurate information, removal of #COVID related accounts? 19 that are not reliable sources and even a videochat, are some of the new news announced by Instagram htps: / / t.co / oojkivcQ86 pic.twitter.com / 8Z7R90t0Ye - Agencia Andina (@Agencia _ Andina) March 25, 2020