Is coronavirus part of a big international conspiracy?
Some claim it is a biological weapon.
And it 's highly likely because where there is coronavirus, economies are completely paralyzed.
In the middle of a war, throw a biological weapon of this kind because you win the war without firing a single bullet.
And more so if you have already developed an effective vaccine and treatment.
The enemy country surrenders by selling the vaccine and treatment.
Doesn't it look like it?
It appeared in the most populated country and on the eve of the largest exchange of tourists from that country with the rest of the world.
Highly populated countries like China, the US, and Europe behave negligently as if they wanted their elderly to die, while countries with low population density, such as Argentina, take drastic measures.
He sounds very suspicious at least.
In my opinion, yes and above all for factual facts, referring me to historical sources of opinion and a staff.
Historical opinion, source Yuval Noah Harari, from his book "Homo Deus," tells us that when Ebola arose in West Africa in 2014, the people who are informed ran not to hide, but to mark their stockbroker to buy shares from various pharmaceutical companies like Tekmira, which in the Middle Ages would not have happened, but to raise their hands to heaven and beg the gods.
I mean, it teaches us that because of the progress that man has made in different ways,
A pharmacist opens a Twitter thread to find the "biggest stupidity or cynicism" about Covid-19
Over the past few weeks there have been a number of theories and hypotheses that have revolved around coronavirus trying to find answers about what its origin is, how to prevent contagion or how to curb its spread.
Some hypotheses have been based on available scientific experience; others, on the other hand, are born out of total ignorance or appear to be derived from science fiction films.
A pharmacist (@Farmaenfurecida) has collected in one
The Chinese created it to destroy the Western world's economy.
Fox News, and the usual suspects on the right.
Coronavirus does not exist.
It is a combination of propaganda and effects of 5G radiation on people's bodies, and serve to control the population as they are doing.
This is a YouTube channel that I 'm not going to link to not give it the notoriety it doesn' t deserve.
Mass events (sports, shows, etc.) and tourism will be severely limited
Given the mandatory isolation we are in, and if this situation continues for another two months, the planet's economy would be in recession. Those with few resources to cope with quarantine will come out looking for food, regardless of the consequences, creating a "civil war."
In Colombia it is said, "Coronavirus Covid-19 kills, but hunger too."
If the crisis were to escalate further, small producers and entrepreneurs would collapse by joining the aforementioned protest group.
Finally, big companies would be eager to fire thousands of employees.
Coronaviruses are not new, the record of the youngest strain dates back 8,000 years before Christ: we have always had them by the side, but now we have the technology to see them.
People believe because there are some beliefs that are "fun" while everyone knows that they are tales, the Saints Kings and Clós, the Llorona and the Chupacabras, are even cause of trouble.
Instead, there are some beliefs that are more dangerous than disease: believing that rotaviruses and coronaviruses are "cured" simply by hygiene and good feeding habits, or adding salt to a baby's milk "immunizes" it.
No friend, it will not be the end of the world, I do not know what information you have seen, but no serious medium has claimed that this is a deadly disease for everyone who contracts it.
We won 't all die, but statistically their mortality rate is higher than the common flu.
However, in some cases it has worsened to the point that infected people have been required from hospitalization to intensive care with a respirator.
According to WHO data, as of March 1, 2020, there are 90,000 people infected, of whom 3,000 have died, 80% feel just a very cold flu.
And I have proof, here is Dr No himself with a high command of the Andorran Republican Guard releasing COVID-19 to the world:
And if this trial alone is not enough, here is an evil SPECTRA agent in the act of doing evil: