Hydroxychloroquine with azithromycin does not reduce coronavirus mortality
hydroxychloroquine | EP
The combination of hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) and azithromycin (AZM) has not been effective, as it has been linked to significant cardiovascular risks, including mortality, in the largest safety study ever conducted on HCQ and HCQ + AZM.
In patients with rheumatoid arthritis, short-term (30-day) HCQ treatment was found not to carry an excessive risk of complications associated with its use, but long-term HCQ treatment had a relative 65% increase in cardiovascular-related mortality compared to sulfasalazine.
Duplicating the Mortality Risk
Hydroxychloroquine and azithromycin had a risk of cardiovascular mortality more than double (2.19) than the comparative treatment, even in the short term, according to the results of more than 320,000 users of this combined therapy.
This treatment also increased from 15 to 20 percent in the rate of angina pectoris / chest pain and in heart failure.
Hydrochloroquine, a drug commonly used in the treatment of malaria, lupus and rheumatoid arthritis (RA), received early attention during the pandemic as a possible treatment of COVID-19.
The short-term safety profile did not identify an excess risk in any of the 16 serious adverse events compared to a similar AR drug, sulfasalazine (SSZ).
Long-term HCQ treatment was associated with a 65% increase in cardiovascular mortality compared to SSZ.
Together causes damage such as cardiovascular mortality
Hydroxychloroquine, both alone and in combination with azithromycin, received strong consideration as a possible treatment for COVID without a large-scale study of its overall safety profile.
We had access to an unprecedented amount of data on this drug, and we were relieved not to find worrying side effects in the short-term use of hydroxychloroquine.
However, when prescribed in combination with azithromycin, it can induce heart failure and cardiovascular mortality, so we urge caution in the use of both, "explains one of the authors of the study, Daniel Prieto-Alhambra.
This study examined over 950,000 HCQ users using unidentified electronic health records and administrative claims data over a 20-year period.
Records were collected from 14 different databases covering six nations (Germany, Japan, Netherlands, Spain, United Kingdom, United States).