Are ibuprofen and NSAIDs in general dangerous for coronavirus?
Acetaminophen may be safer for COVID-19 fever
If you have an inflammatory condition, you are likely to have many non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as ibuprofen (Advil) or naproxen (Aleve) in your home.
While these drugs are well known to relieve pain and inflammation, as well as to reduce fever, people who develop COVID-19 symptoms may be better off avoiding them and opting for acetaminophen (Tylenol) instead.
A few days ago, France's health minister, Olivier Veran, warned via Twitter that COVID-19 patients in France who used NSAID appear to be worse off than those who opted for paracetamol (called paracetamol in Europe).
He asked people with COVID-19 symptoms to avoid NSAIDs.
Although Veran's statement is believed to come from reports of a handful of young patients in southern France, other health experts have agreed that avoiding NSAIDs in patients with COVID-19 is a smart move.
Indeed, a major medical journal, the BMJ (British Medical Journal), has just published an article on this specific subject.
"Prolonged illness or complications of respiratory conditions may be more common when NSAIDs are used, both respiratory or septic complications [blood infection] and cardiovascular complications," said Dr. Paul Little, MD, Professor of Primary Care Research at the University of Southampton in the UK.
Amir Khan, MD, an NHS doctor and senior university professor in the UK, also endorsed Veran's claim that NSAIDs could be problematic for patients with COVID-19.
"Despite all its beneficial effects, it has long been known that anti-inflammatory drugs can have a depressive effect on parts of our immune system," he wrote.
When it comes to taking them to help relieve the symptoms of common cold, we really don't have to worry about this slight but important reduction in the strength of our immune system.
We are very unlikely to develop complications from the common cold, much less die from it... But we need our immune system to work properly to fight the coronavirus and win the battle. "
Another European expert, Ian Jones, a professor of virology at the University of Reading, noted in the BMJ that COVID-19 reduces an enzyme that regulates the balance of salt and water in the bloodstream and may contribute to the development of pneumonia in some patients.
Ibuprofen exacerbates this, while paracetamol [the same medicine as acetaminophen] does not.
Scientists who wrote in the medical journal The Lancet also recently discussed possible mechanisms by which NSAIDs could increase the severity of COVID-19, at least in people with diabetes or hypertension.
More research is needed
It is worth noting that there is some disagreement between doctors and public health experts about whether NSAIDs are actually less safe than acetaminophen.
"I don't think we've had any hard evidence to suggest that [ibuprofen has aggravated COVID-19] is just a concern at this time," said Dr. Yvonne Maldonado, MD, professor of pediatrics and epidemiologist of infectious diseases at Stanford University in California.
University of Nebraska infectious disease specialist Andre Kalil, MD, MPH, shared an equally skeptical view with the LA Times.
There are no clinical data and no human studies showing that ibuprofen or paracetamol are harmful or beneficial to people who have COVID-19.
Take only acetaminophen for now
Despite the uncertainty, many doctors now say acetaminophen is the safest option if you develop a fever right now.
"While the data are inconclusive, it makes sense to avoid [NSAIDs], as they are generally used only for symptom control," Dr. Joshua F. Baker, MD, Assistant Professor of Rheumatology and Epidemiology at the University of Pennsylvania and Michael J. Crescenz VA Medical Center, told CreakyJoints.
Dr. Baker adds that people with inflammatory arthritis who regularly take NSAIDs to relieve pain do not need to stop using these drugs unless they develop symptoms of COVID-19.
I would continue to take them for symptoms control, as long as there were no symptoms such as fever, cough or other symptoms of viral infection.
If you develop COVID-19 symptoms, you should call your doctor for guidance on how to test you and which over-the-counter drugs are best for controlling your symptoms.
Make sure they know what other medications you are taking to control arthritis or other conditions.