Chileans and don't Chileans read this that matters to you
Beautiful people from all over the world
, to leave them one of the cures of covid 19 and how to avoid it as well,
share and disseminate this message
, prevent more people from dying just for a few minutes of their lives because this is really important, not only are they informed by TV media, media that are funded by the top business and that their scripts are already written by third parties.
Have a good immune system.
simple things like vitamin C, lemon juice, orange juice, zing, staples.
, will make you almost immune to covid 19, so your defenses will never let it pass.
The virus is light and always has been.
, it was never something serious as the media claim. It's just a virus.
If you know of someone who might have the covid 19
, hospitals around the world are doing WHO protocols, these protocols make the patient worse, even cause death this because they 're wrong, and WHO knows and does it in advance, see also that the results of this are almost random and are too imprecise, until a positive spill of the cauldron by a WHO-backed entity, so look with caution. Try to avoid the hospital as much as possible.
give video
https: / / www.youtube.com / watch? v = xt1CXQUfSUw = youtu.be
cures the 19 mostly, this has been demonstrated by doctors and scientists who reported on this and below you can see the videos.
(chloroquine was discovered in Peru, when malaria was ravaging in past decades, dozens of people died of malaria, until they discovered an ARBOL... called QUINA, which is on the national shield of Peru, the natives always used it to cure diseases... there the scientists exhausted from not finding a cure against malaria... tried with the bark and leaf of that tree, extracted the compound QUININA... and saved thousands, the chemical and synthetic form is now called CLOQUININA.
Info below
It 's just that it' s a fairly cheap treatment and the WHO doesn 't want to make it official.
Because they want people to be vaccinated if or if, a vaccine that will be provided by the Bill Gates organization, the guy who funded covid 19 in its creation and who patented the vaccine in 2019, the same man said in his 2015 speech, that his vaccine seeks to reduce between 10 and 15% of the population. That is why I warn you in advance Chilean brothers and from all over the world, so that no more people die from this media show, I don 't get anything with this but to tell you what you don' t know, I take many hours and days to do this report that I tell you and everything you investigate, I hope it 's worth someone.
The same Gates health foundation is doing today the so-called
temporary tattoos
They 're infrared markers that are putting newborns in control of them in the future.
This is happening today.
That 's what he' s looking for with the vaccine, population control, nothing more than that, also some doctors have shown that the
80% of their patients treated with cavid 19 without any vaccine
So why is the vaccine so urgent? Ask yourself, don't believe everything on TV because most lies come from this and the political class that is at the head, TV was always a means to dissuade people.
See source below
https: / / www.lavozdegalicia.es / noticia / sociedad / 2020 / 04 / 19 / oms-queda-manos-altruismo-bill-gates-benefactors / 00031587312805913523864.htm
https: / / wwwhatsnew.com / 2019 / 12 / 20 / tattoos-invisible-to-identify-a-ninos-vaccinated-financed-by-bill-gates /
Those videos I leave are part of my foundation.
, see also this video, it 's the most blocked video in the world so far, it' s called
Plandemisk
See and doubt all these measures and what the government and all the media are saying to divide people and control them at will, porphyr,
Open your eyes.
Many of us are already awake.
The truth will always come out
And you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free.
John 8: 32.
Enough of false media, investigate on your own as well, blessings for all and see that all humanity can awaken from this true atrocity of a few to keep all under control.
See porphyry!!!!
Some Fuentes
And this is the most banal to date.
But it lacks the final part, the video is cut
Current WHO treatments are killing patients, the doctor explains