Remdesivir does not reduce deaths from COVID-19, finds a large WHO trial
Remdesivir, an antiviral drug that was the first to be found to combat COVID-19, does not reduce deaths from the disease, found a large international study.
The World Health Organization's Solidarity trial, which combined data from 405 hospitals in 30 countries, randomly assigned more than 11,000 people hospitalized with COVID-19 to receive one of four drugs or standard care, which could include other drugs such as steroids.
The drugs tested include remdesivir, the drug against hydroxychloroquine malaria, an HIV drug called lopinavir and interferon-beta1a.
Interferon is a chemical of the immune system that activates the body's antiviral defenses.
None of the drugs showed any benefit in reducing deaths, the need for ventilation, or the length of hospital stays, researchers reported on October 15 in a preliminary study published on medRxiv.org.
The work has not yet been examined by other scientists and some analyses may change during the peer review process, say experts.
Other studies had already shown that neither lopinavir, administered in combination with ritonavir, a drug that increases lopinavir levels in the body, nor hydroxychloroquine were effective against the new coronavirus (
SN: 19 / 3 / 20; SN: 2 / 8 / 20
These studies, in addition to the new data, send a clear message that these drugs are not useful for treating COVID-19, says David Brett-Major, medical epidemiologist at the University of Nebraska Medical Center in Omaha.
Sign up for e-mail updates on the latest news and research on coronavirus
But remdesivir has been shown to reduce four days of hospital stay in a trial conducted by the U.S. National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases.
U.
SN: 29 / 4 / 20
In that study, the drug "showed a tendency to reduce deaths," but the result was not statistically significant.
Preliminary results from small studies by remdesivir manufacturer Gilead Sciences of Foster City, California, also suggested that the drug might reduce the risk of death from the disease (
SN: 13 / 7 / 20
Currently, the drug has an emergency authorization from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration.
U.
For use in all hospitalized patients.
In the WHO study, 301 of the 2,743 people hospitalised with COVID-19 who took remdesivir died, compared to 303 of the 2,708 people in the group receiving standard care.
That result indicates that remdesivir has no mortality benefit, says Helen Boucher, head of infectious diseases at Tufts Medical Center in Boston.
But that doesn't mean that remdesivir isn't useful, he says.
Shortening hospital stays is the reason why remdesivir has been adopted, at least in the United States, says Boucher.
Leaving aside the new WHO study, "the data we now have suggests that it's a four-day benefit, 11 days versus 15 days," he says with a placebo.
That's important for people who are sick in the hospital.
"I feel very comfortable as a doctor recommending this drug based on data showing a shorter time to improve," says Boucher.
See all our coverage of coronavirus outbreak
Although the new WHO study found that remdesivir does not reduce the duration of hospitalizations, the trial was designed to show only if the drugs could reduce the risk of death.
Therefore, their conclusions about whether remdesivir shortens hospital stays or reduces the risk of using a fan need a closer look, says Brett-Major.
That is also partly because the WHO study combined data from hundreds of hospitals in 30 countries.
A more detailed analysis of data from individual study sites can show a clearer picture of how remdesivir performed in different environments.
The time of hospitalization and whether someone should use a fan may also depend on other factors, such as the number of hospital beds or fans available.
Remdesivir can still improve outcomes for individual patients under the right circumstances, says Brett-Major.
In the short term, the new study will probably not change the way remdesivir is used, says Joanne Turner, immunologist and research vice president of the Texas Biomedical Research Institute in San Antonio.
But as more studies are done, "we will get clarity about when it should be used," he says.
Many hospitalized patients, for example, are suffering more from overindulgent immune systems that attempt to combat the virus.
At that point, it may be too late for a drug that prevents viral replication such as remdesivir to make the difference.
In the WHO study, "if the drug stopped viral replication [for patients], it was clearly not changing the results for them," says Turner.
This will make doctors think if this drug is really useful in very sick people.
But managing to resuscitate sick people earlier could help, say experts.
Boucher and colleagues are part of a study that tests the drug in people who have recently been diagnosed with COVID-19 to see if it can prevent hospitalization and serious illness.
Sign up to receive the last of
Science News
Titles and summaries of the latest
Science News
articles, sent to your inbox