Spain resists tracking apps, anti-COVID tools already used in several countries
The possible use in Spain of a mobile phone application to track possible infections still generates much controversy and some argue that it violates the freedom of the individual.
This is how these types of applications work.
We traced the contacts of a COVID-19 patient.
The mobile keeps its steps and can see if it has moved more than a kilometre away.
Also through geolocation we can discover whether or not that person was alone.
If so, you would also have to track down this other person, as she might be infected, and inform the people you have been with.
The investigation clashes with the privacy of everyone involved.
Access to this network is voluntary and the patient's express consent is required to use their data.
As Spain resists, countries such as Singapore, South Korea, and Australia have bet on new technologies to carry out this type of tracking.
There are two main models of trackers, those based on GPS geolocator and centralized databases that are more invasive, such as those used in China and South Korea, and those using Bluetooth technology such as those in Singapore or Australia.
The key to protecting privacy, experts say, is that the system is decentralized.
Thanks to its experience with SARS, a type of coronavirus, in 2003, Singapore was one of the countries that previously reacted to COVID-19 and the first to launch a Bluetooth-based tracker - the 20th of March.
The application, called TraceTogether, exchanges identification codes between users within a 2-meter radius automatically and encrypted through Bluetooth that have most mobile phones.
If a user contracted COVID-19 pneumonia, caused by the SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus, he or she can share his or her information with the authorities and the system will alert people who were in contact with him or her to break the transmission chains.
In an explanatory video, TraceTogether ensures that the process requires user authorization and the application does not collect geolocation data.
However, only 1.1 million people have dropped the program, about a fifth of the population, when the figure should reach at least 60 to be effective, while the application is having some technical problems on iPhone mobiles.
In addition to using new technologies, Singapore, China, South Korea, or Taiwan, where the new coronavirus has been more or less controlled, employ hundreds or thousands of people to track and monitor possible outbreaks.
This mobilization of human resources can create challenges in countries with hundreds of thousands of infections, such as Spain, Italy, or the United States.
"If you ask me if any active or developing Bluetooth contact tracking system anywhere in the world is ready to replace manual tracking work, I will tell you without reservation that the answer is no," Jason May, director of the Singapore Agency of Technology, creator of TraceTogether, wrote in a blog.
In China, residents must download an application that, using a logarithm that includes places visited, emits a green code for those who have freedom of movement and yellow or red for those who are required to quarantine.
In addition, population movements are strictly monitored by the country's authorities, where privacy and personal information are not protected from state scrutiny.
Those infected by COVID-19 in Taiwan are controlled by their cell phones, which send signals that allow authorities to know if they are violating quarantine and fine them.
In the case of South Korea, authorities use GPS data, credit card payments, and even surveillance camera information to create a map of the places visited by a COVID-19 patient.
The map can be consulted on the Internet and the system also sends alert messages to the entire population.
As countries relax quarantine and movement restrictions, governments are grappling with technological solutions to track possible infections and stem the spread of the virus.
Vietnam and Australia are some of the countries launching applications based on the Singapore model, while Spain is part of a European consortium developing a Pan-European Proximity Privacy Preserve (PEPP-PT) software that uses Bluetooth technology.
The technology giants Google and Apple, owners of Android and iPhone operating systems, have based themselves on the European system to jointly develop their own tracking application.
According to a report by the Linlaters law firm, at least 28 countries have launched COVID-19 tracking applications, including India, Iran or Colombia, and 11 others are developing their own systems.