A study confirms remdesivir shortens covid-19 disease
(CNN) - The antiviral drug remdesivir shortens the duration of the disease even among non-white patients, who have a higher risk of serious illness, doctors reported Wednesday.
The study, published in JAMA Network Open magazine, adds to the evidence that the drug can relieve the burden of coronavirus disease, although it is not a cure.
The remdesivir, sold under the Veklury brand, was approved in October.
It was the first drug to obtain full FDA approval for use in the treatment of covid-19.
MIRA: WHO recommends not using remdesivir to treat covid-19
"Taking remdesivir was associated with faster clinical improvement in a cohort of predominantly non-white patients," wrote Dr. Brian Garibaldi of the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine and colleagues.
Garibaldi was among the team of doctors who treated then-President Donald Trump for a coronavirus infection last year.
The team examined the records of 2,483 patients with covid-19 treated in the Johns Hopkins system.
Of these, 342 received remdesivir and 184 of these patients also received corticosteroids.
And although patients who received remdesivir were less likely to die, the findings were not statistically significant, the team said.
Only very sick patients received remdesivir, those with low oxygen levels and indications of organ damage.
MIRA: Remdesivir does not help patients with covid-19, concludes a large global study
Our study included a much higher percentage of patients from underrepresented minority groups than previous clinical trials of remesavir.
Approximately 80% of our cohort's patients were non-white compared to 30% to 47% in clinical trials, "the team wrote.
Because underrepresented minority groups have endured a disproportionate burden during the covid-19 pandemic, but have not been widely represented in clinical trials, our results provide important evidence that remdesivir reception is associated with a decrease in time for clinical improvement in these populations.