These are the animals in which WHO is looking for the origin of the covid.
The search for the animal that transmitted the coronavirus to man is still open after the latest study by Chinese experts and the WHO, which does not make clear who acted as a vector for the disease.
Experts at the World Health Organization (WHO) suspect that the thorny teapot is one of the possible intermediaries in the transmission of coronavirus from bats to humans, but what is this little-known animal?
(In context: This is the WHO theory on the origin of coronavirus)
A genetic study by the journal of the Chinese Academy of Sciences found that the coronavirus, detected in Wuhan, was related to a variant that exists in bats................
In their report, these experts cite on page 96 a list of animals that could have played the role of vectors, from cats, rabbits or minnows to less common species such as pangolins.
The report also cites the civet and the turquoise toucan, two species that were carriers of SARS in the early 2000s in the Chinese province of Canton (south).
(It may interest you: 100 million more children without reading skills due to the pandemic).
Scientists quickly accused the bat of being at the origin of coronavirus when it emerged in late 2019.
A genetic study by the journal of the Chinese Academy of Sciences in January 2020 found that coronavirus, detected in the Chinese city of Wuhan, was closely related to a variant existing in bats, which would be the "native host."
But, in fact, bats are hosts to many other variants of coronavirus.
Scientists point out, however, that covid-19 must have been transmitted by some other, yet unidentified, species known as the "intermediate host."
Although a study by World Health Organization (WHO) experts and Chinese researchers, accessed by AFP on Monday, considers a direct transmission between bat and man "possible," the theory is that the virus was transmitted via another intermediate animal that has not yet been identified.
(You may be interested: The Colombian who fights to end plant parasites)
A study published shortly after in the Journal of Medical Virology identified snakes as potential intermediaries.
But the hypothesis was quickly dismissed by other experts who were convinced that the vector was probably a mammal, as in the case of SARS, which was a civet, a small mammal highly prized in China for its meat.
(See also: Veterinarians warn serious pictures of dogs and cats by coronavirus)
The pangolin
Researchers at the Southern China Agricultural University noted in February 2020 that the pangolin, an endangered scale mammal, could be the "lost link" between bats and humans.
This nocturnal insectivore was one of the wild animals sold in the Huanan market in the city of Wuhan, with which the first cases of covid-19 are related.
Vulnerable Cats and Dogs
In late February 2020, a domestic dog was quarantined in Hong Kong after giving "mild positive" to the coronavirus, after its owner contracted the disease.
In the following months, cases of infection were reported in cats and dogs, although the latter were very few, all supposedly infected by their owners.
Cases of hares and hamsters as well as tigers and lions in captivity were also reported.
But scientists have pointed out that these domestic animals, although infected, cannot re-infect humans.
(Also: What to do when a dog attacks)
Suspicious Views
Suspicions have also been cast on minnows, which are bred for their valuable skin.
On 20 May, Dutch authorities said that these small mammals might have transmitted coronavirus to a worker at a mink farm in the Netherlands.
On 26 May, the WHO said that Dutch workers who had allegedly been infected by the visons could be the first known cases of animal-to-human transmission.
In other European Union countries, such as Denmark, France, Greece, Italy, Lithuania, Spain, and Sweden, as well as in the United States, cases of covid-19 were detected on mink farms.
In July, tens of thousands of these animals were slaughtered in the Netherlands and about 100,000 on a farm in Aragon, Spain.
The Danish government ordered the sacrifice of more than 15 million mints in early November.
Copenhagen warned that mutation through visons, known as "Group 5," could threaten the efficacy of a future vaccine.
The mink, the pangolin... but also the rabbit, the raccoon, the domestic cat, the civet or the turtledove.
There is a multitude of possible "intermediate guests" in the latest report by Chinese and WHO experts.
They even mention other hypotheses, such as transmission through frozen meat.
Turbot, rabbit or raccoon
The name of the tower is in itself explanatory.
It is a member of the mustelids ('Mustelidae'), the family of mammals that includes weasels, badgers, hares, otters, turkeys and minks.
With a length of about 33-43 cm and an elongated shape it is similar to the hooves.
Its weight is 1-3 kg.
But they also have white markings on the head and a stripe on the back, traits common to several species of weevils.
The python resembles a palm civet which, although not a mustelid, was identified as a vector between bats and humans in the 2003 SARS outbreak.
Where is he?
Five subspecies have been identified: Borneo, China, Java, Burma and Vietnam.
The Chinese subspecies - 'Melogale moschata' - is the most widespread and can be found in the Indian state of Assam, southern China or the island of Taiwan.
They have diverse habitats and are found in subtropical forests and grasslands.
What's it like?
It is more active at dusk and at night, it has an omnivorous diet of seeds, fruits and nuts as well as insects, worms and small amphibians.
His sharp claws allow him to take care of - and sleep on - the trees.
He also defends himself from threats by emitting a foul secretion from the anal glands when he is in panic.
Are you in danger?
No, it is currently in the "least affected" category on the UN Red List.
Although sometimes hunted for its skin, the turquoise teapot is not under any pressure.
Unlike many species, it adapts quite well to human presence in its habitat.
A study of hill tillage in the mid-1990s near a village in southeastern China showed that animals often use piles of wood and stones to rest and hunt for food in rice, soy, cotton, or grass fields.
Farmers often appreciate these animals as they end up with pests and do not usually attack chickens or cattle.