Is coronavirus aging?
Why many of Europe's new cases of covid-19 are lighter
Doctors in an Italian hospital
Just over a week ago, statements by Massimo Clementi, director of the Laboratory of Microbiology and Virology at the San Raffaele Hospital in Milan, became viral, never better.
The Italian virologist and his lab colleagues argue that the current virus circulating throughout Europe is very different from what it arrived more than three months ago and is "aging," so its virulence is up to "100 times less" than it originally had.
Is this so?
The reality, like everything around this virus, is never so simple.
Much of the theory of Italian virologists is based on the fact that for weeks now, the new cases of covid-19 recorded by Spanish and Italian hospitals are not only much less, of course, but also less serious.
Italians have based their findings on a study comparing PCR tests of 100 patients admitted to the hospital in the first 15 days of March - when the most serious cases arrived - to that of 100 patients arriving at the end of May.
The difference in the severity of the disease was "macroscopic," according to Clementi himself in an interview with the newspaper.
The World
On the other hand, the idea is part of the fact that many viruses end up 'adapting' to their hosts and becoming less aggressive over time.
It is a matter of mere survival, as in this way the virus can 'coexist' with humans.
On the other hand, generally less virulent variants of viruses are more successful in transmitting.
However, despite the certainty with which this Italian specialist manifested himself, many doctors and scientists doubt his thesis.
Including the World Health Organization (WHO) itself, which, after this theory went viral, has stated on several occasions that today the virus's transmission capacity remains intact.
Evidence of this is the virulence with which it is attacking countries such as Brazil, Iran, the United States or Peru today.
Viruses mutate, but they don't always weaken
As explained by
Beans (without)
Juan Herrero, spokesperson of the Working Group on Infectious Diseases (GTEI) of the Spanish Society of Internal Medicine (SEMI), the theory of Italian doctors is necessary to grasp it with pincers.
"It's true and it's a sure fact that viruses mutate," says this doctor, who works at the Madrid hospital in La Paz.
However, he points out that although these mutations are something more common, at no time do they "have to lead to a change in virulence or the ability to transmit the virus."
"In fact, these mutations are usually neutral," he adds.
However, what Dr. Herrera does acknowledge is that he himself has also begun to observe that clinical pictures of patients entering hospitals in the last few weeks by covid-19 are less severe than those seen in mid-March.
"The cases we have seen more recently did not behave with the aggressiveness and speed with which a few months ago they worsened and required increased oxygen supply, or even moving to intensive care units," he notes, although he warns that it is necessary to be "very careful" when making hasty conclusions, as the message they can give to the population "may be counterproductive."
Why are they less serious?
So if the virus is not weakening, why do the cases seem or are less serious?
For Herrera, the explanations are multiple.
"It could even be a cognitive bias of doctors," he says.
That is, because fewer and fewer cases enter hospitals, very serious patients appear very occasionally, "leading to a perception of not seeing as dramatic cases" as at the peak of the pandemic.
But apart from possible medical biases, most of the medical community, including the WHO, believe that the change in trend is simply because we better control the transmission of the virus.
The people most vulnerable to the virus, such as our elderly, are more protected and more aware of the contagion, for example.
Data from the Ministry of Health itself supports this theory, as the average age of positive cases of covid-19 is falling markedly.
The most vulnerable population has been confined, more protected and less likely to become infected and therefore develop these severe pictures, "the doctor explains.
On the other hand, we are also able to diagnose them earlier.
"There is now a much greater capacity to diagnose all suspected cases through microbiological testing for patients, when it was previously reserved only for the most serious cases," he adds.
According to Fernando Simón, director of the Center for Coordination of Health Emergencies and Alerts (CCAES), in his daily press conference on Monday, "90% of the suspected cases identified are PCR," a percentage that in the worst weeks of the pandemic was radically different.
In this way, they are detected before many of these patients can develop a serious clinical picture.
Another possible explanation, whose debate remains open within the scientific community, is whether the virus is less circulating in our country, as well as the fact that people gather more in the open air and the arrival of heat also play a role in this phenomenon.
"Until we have more evidence, the debate will remain open for us," Herrera concludes.