Fake news: Lysol cleaning product does not remove Covid-19
A worker measures body temperature to enter the Ping'an International Finance Center.
Photo: El Universal
A video circulating on social media claims that disinfectant products such as Lysol are able to eliminate coronavirus.
The information is misleading, because the label shown says "SARS coronavirus," a strain distinct from COVID-19 that was discovered in China in late 2019.
This bottle clip is for disinfecting, okay?
Do you see it?
This boat has years, this product.
And the pinch virus that says here, you read where I have the nail.
What does he say?
Coronavirus, this pincer virus has been around all along and they're just doing a blowjob to distract people, "says a man in the video as he shows a Lysol brand container.
The video has been shared over 120,000 times on Facebook.
Other users have published similar materials with the same claim.
Product labels indicate that they eliminate, by 99.9%, "SARS coronavirus."
One publication shows photos of another bottle of Lysol and points out its effectiveness against human coronavirus.
Similar publications have emerged in English that coronavirus can be eliminated using Lysol.
You can also read: Are you addicted to food?
These brain circuits could be the culprits.
Same family, different strains
"Coronaviruses (CoV) are a broad family of viruses that can cause various conditions," says the World Health Organization (WHO).
They can cause from common cold to more serious diseases, such as Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS-CoV9) and severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS-CoV).
The new strain of coronavirus, which had not previously been found in humans and was first reported in the Chinese city of Wuhan in late 2019, was provisionally designated by WHO as 2019-nCoV and then as COVID-19.
The Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), a U.S. health agency, states that COVID-19 "is not the same coronavirus that causes MERS or SARS," although genetic analysis suggests that the strain that has alerted several countries emerged from a SARS-related virus, but research continues.
We are aware of speculations about Lysol (and Dettol) products and the coronavirus 2019-nCoV [now COVID-19].
As this is an emerging outbreak, we (like all other manufacturers) still do not have access to the new virus for testing and, as a result, we are not in a position to confirm the levels of effectiveness of the new strain, "said Reckitt Benckiser, the British company that owns Lysol and Dettol.
You can also read: Why do we have brilliant ideas when we're in the shower?
Pinol and Dettol work?
Information is circulating on social networks that the cleaning product Pinol, belonging to the Mexican AlEn Group, is effective in eliminating the "human coronavirus."
Pinol's Twitter account has clarified to users that "is not tested with the new Coronavirus (2019-nCoV)."
The Agence France-Presse verification team investigated similar claims about Dettol, another Reckitt Benckiser disinfectant.
Recently, the company updated its website to provide information on the new strain of the virus, specifically stating that its products "have been shown to be effective against viruses similar to 2019-nCoV on hard, non-porous surfaces."
You can also read: What to do when the medicine expires?
Can I put it in the toilet?
More than 1,000 deaths
Since its detection in December 2019, COVID-19 coronavirus has caused more than 1,000 deaths, a higher number than those caused by SARS between 2002 and 2003, as well as an infection of more than 60,000 people.
After a holiday that lasted until February 9, workers in China returned to work the next day.
The virus has disrupted daily life in various cities, such as Hong Kong.
In short, while it is true that Lysol disinfectant can prevent infections caused by the SARS coronavirus strain, it is different from that affecting nearly thirty countries around the world, which has a higher mortality rate than that recorded by SARS.
So far, no studies have been conducted on the effectiveness of Lysol products in the COVID-19 strain.