Aspirin can protect against COVID-19
According to a study in Israel, aspirin can protect against COVID-19.
Photo: Shutterstock
Healthy people who regularly take aspirin to prevent cardiovascular disease are 29% less likely to be infected with COVID-19 than those who do not use that medicine.
This was indicated by an observational epidemiological study conducted in Israel by scientists from the Leumit health service, Bar Ilan University and Barzilai Medical Center.
A total of 10,477 Leumit HMO members were tested for COVID-19 between 1 February and 30 June 2020.
An antecedent was that aspirin had been widely used during the 1918 Spanish influenza pandemic, several decades before its activity against RNA viruses was understood.
Scientists also knew of studies that show that aspirin, in addition to reducing inflammation, can help the immune system combat some viral infections.
Thus, they hypothesized that pre-infection treatment with aspirin in low doses (75 milligrams) could have a beneficial effect on COVID-19 susceptibility and duration of the disease.
"The new study sought to better understand the potential favorable effects of aspirin to help the human immune system combat COVID-19," said Dr. Milana Frenkel-Morgenstern of the Azrieli Faculty of Medicine at Bar Ilan University.
In addition to the lower probability of infection among chronic aspirin users, the data also revealed that the time of positive to negative conversion of the PCR test results of the new coronavirus among the positive patients who used aspirin was significantly shorter and the duration of the disease was between two and three days less, depending on pre-existing patient conditions.
"This observation of the possible beneficial effect of low doses of aspirin on COVID-19 infection is preliminary but seems very promising," said Professor Eli Magen of Barzilai Medical Center and director of the study.
For his part, the principal investigator, Dr. Eugene Merzon de Leumit, emphasized the importance of repeating the results of the study using larger samples and including patients from other medical centers and countries to verify results.