The map of sulfur dioxide emissions in Wuhan shows a NASA forecast, not current indices
Several images of a map have been shared thousands of times in Spanish since February 10 on Facebook, claiming to show elevated sulfur dioxide levels over the Chinese city of Wuhan.
For some users, this
would confirm rumors that cremation of bodies is substantial
due to the epidemic of the new coronavirus.
However, the map, made with NASA data, is a forecast of sulfur dioxide and volcanic gas emissions based on archived data, not a current or real-time record of the gas increase.
"Elevated Sulfur Dioxide Rates on the Wuhan Atmosphere of China would confirm rumors that cremation of bodies is substantial massive!!
, say several publications that share the images.
On this page they talk about how
Climate data show massive release of sulfur dioxide gas from the outskirts of Wuhan.
The map with the image showing a higher concentration of gas has also circulated in English, French, Chinese and Korean.
The English tweet, published on February 8 and with over 12,000 retouches, says, translated into Spanish:
Data from http: / / windy.com shows a massive release of sulfur dioxide gas in the vicinity of Wuhan, commonly associated with burning organic matter.
Levels are high, even compared to the rest of China. "
Between February 9 and 17, 2020 (the date below), 1,300.06 and 1,351.65 micrograms per cubic metre (µg / m3) of sulfur dioxide (SO2), a gas often emitted during the burning of fossil fuels, are detected near Wuhan.
According to the Spanish Ministry for Ecological Transition (MITECO),
The origin of SO2 is primarily anthropogenic.
It is a gas that originates mainly during the combustion of fossil fuels containing sulfur (oil, solid fuels), carried out mainly in industrial processes of high temperature and electricity generation. "
Wuhan is the epicentre of the new coronavirus epidemic.
Its 11 million inhabitants have been quarantined since the end of January, and the city accounts for 62% of all recorded infections across China.
In this city, the capital of Hubei province, the first cases were detected at the end of last December.
In turn, mainland China is the most affected by COVID-19, with over 3,000 dead and 80,000 infected.
In the rest of the world, not counting the Asian giant, as of March 6 there are 86 countries affected, more than 17,000 infected and more than 300 dead.
British, American (in Chinese) or Malaysian media also published the map linking sulfur dioxide emission to possible burning of corpses and citing a site called the source of the map.
Windy.
A prediction based on archived data
The Windy.com page, dedicated to weather and atmospheric forecasts, created the map based on a forecast made with data from the United States Space Agency (NASA).
In an e-mail sent to the AFP on 20 February, they indicated from the page:
Windy.com only shows a prediction of SO2, for which data were obtained from NASA and its NASA GEOS-5 model.
That means Windy.com does not calculate data on its own.
If you have more questions about the details of the model you should contact NASA.
Furthermore, we do not store meteorological data in file. "
This tweet in English, which is one of the oldest with the viral map, shows that the data available is from Monday 10 to Monday 17, but the tweet was published on February 8.
In January, days 10 and 17 fell on Friday, so the data shown must correspond to February.
I mean, they 're a prediction.
In addition, you can check at Windy that it is not possible to keep dates before the current one.
On the other hand, in response to questions from the Windy.com user community, an administrator answers:
Windy only visualizes the forecast of SO2 values.
Thus, unexpected activity such as body cremation due to coronavirus would not be shown in Windy.
What for?
Because predictions do not include unexpected human activities or natural events such as a volcanic eruption. "
On February 9 and 10, Windy.com provided similar responses to users in a section called
Are sulfur dioxide levels abnormally high in Wuhan or is it just something industry-related?
, created for viral publications on social networks.
Aerial view of Wuhan, China, on January 27, 2020, when quarantine measures were imposed due to the new coronavirus
NASA meteorologist Arlindo da Silva explained by email on February 20 that NASA's sulfur dioxide data are not from daily fluctuations.
Our predictions are based on fixed emissions files and, once SO2 is emitted, it is transported by the estimated winds.
, told Da Silva.
Although satellite data have been used for emissions files, these do not account for daily variations in SO2 emissions, so they cannot show sudden changes in human activity.
, he summarized.
For its part, China's National Environmental Monitoring Centre published a note on February 13, "Reports on gas density are rejected," denying claims of elevated SO2 levels in Wuhan.
The statement reads:
An analysis led by satellite experts showed that sulphur dioxide density remained at a low level in Wuhan and the surrounding areas from February 3 to Sunday.
[8 February, NDLR]
The highest density detected in the analyses during that period was 11.5 micrograms per cubic metre, well below the concentration of 1,300 micrograms per cubic metre reported by the website for that period. "
Sulphur dioxide is produced mainly in industrial activity
On the page of the French Institute for the Industrial Environment and Risks (Ineris), it is explained that SO2 is.......................
"is a gas manufactured from sulphide minerals, from the combustion of sulfur or in the petroleum industry"
and, apart from fossil fuels and refineries,
It is also emitted in forest fires and volcanic eruptions.
Following the definition of the Spanish MITECO:
"The main emitter of SO2 is the industrial sector, whereby the temporal distribution of SO2 levels is usually determined by the periods during which the broadcasting industry affecting the station is in operation".
As this AFP article explains, Wuhan
"today, it is one of the centres of the steel industry, where 60% of the country's high-speed railway tracks are manufactured";
NASA reported on March 2 a dramatic drop in pollution in China.
Partially related
with the economic slowdown due to the coronavirus outbreak.
In short, maps that claim to show abnormally high sulfur dioxide emissions around Wuhan come from a page of weather forecasts, based on a NASA model, and are based on past emissions data, not updated daily emissions.