Coronavirus: 10 myths and false tips you should ignore about covid-19
All kinds of alleged miraculous cures for covid-19 circulate through social media.
When news began to spread about the new virus that was wreaking havoc in the city of Wuhan, China, there was no shortage of those who said it was all an exaggeration, that it was no worse than a flu.
And since then, myths and fake news about the epidemic of covid-19 caused by the SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus have multiplied.
This includes health advice disseminated through social networks ranging from some that are useless but relatively harmless to others that are really dangerous.
Here we explore some of the most widespread and what science says about it.
A particularly widespread myth is that coronavirus cannot be transmitted in areas with warm and humid climates.
Maybe you're also interested
But while the effect of heat on coronavirus is not yet known precisely, the World Health Organization has already made it clear that this is not the case.
The coronavirus is also expanding into countries with warm and humid climates.
According to the WHO, "scientific evidence so far indicates that the virus behind the covid-19 pandemic can be transmitted anywhere on the planet," including in tropical countries.
And the idea that other forms of heat exposure such as hot water baths or the use of hair dryers can be used to combat coronavirus is also wrong.
The same can be said of a publication, copied and pasted by dozens of social media users in different countries, and falsely attributed to UNICEF, which claims that drinking hot water and exposure to the sun kill the virus.
Neither baths nor hot drinks help prevent covid-19.
"Trying to heat your body or expose yourself to the sun, presumably to avoid the virus, is completely ineffective," says Professor Sally Bloomfield, London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine.
The reason: neither exposure to the sun, taking a hot bath or drinking hot liquids will change the actual body temperature, which remains stable unless you are already ill.
"Regardless of the water temperature of the bath or shower, the body temperature will remain from 36.5 ° C to 37 ° C," warns WHO.
And if the bathroom or the drink is too hot, all you can do is burn yourself.
Another misconception is that exposure to extreme cold can also kill the virus, for the same reason: body temperature remains stable.
That is why it is also not true that avoiding frozen food and drink is a way of preventing it, as stated in UNICEF's false message quoted earlier.
A recent erroneous message on the Internet... that purports to be a UNICEF communication seems to indicate that avoiding ice cream and other cold foods can help prevent the onset of the disease.
This is, of course, totally false, "says Charlotte Gornitzka of UNICEF.
The best way to protect against COVID-19 is to wash your hands frequently.
This eliminates the viruses that may be in the hands and avoids the infection that could result from touching the eyes, mouth and nose, "the WHO insists.
It is also false that the new coronavirus does not infect children, as some people have misinterpreted.
"The new coronavirus (2019-nCoV) can infect people of all ages," the WHO clearly states.
Children may also get sick and become infected with coronavirus..................
What happens is that "it has been observed that older people and those with some diseases (such as asthma, diabetes or heart disease) are more likely to become seriously ill when they acquire the infection," explains the organism.
And in addition to being infected with the virus, children can also transmit it.
For this reason, the WHO advises people of all ages to take measures to protect themselves from the virus, for example, through good hand and respiratory hygiene.
The possibility of contracting covid-19 through mosquito bites is also a concern for many.
But, according to the WHO, there is no evidence to date that this is possible.
"The new coronavirus is a respiratory virus that spreads primarily through contact with an infected person through the respiratory droplets that are generated when that person sneezes or sneezes, for example, or through saliva droplets or nose secretions," the organization points out.
Therefore, to minimize the risk of infection with covid-19, close contacts should be minimized, especially with people with fever and cough.
A publication, copied and pasted by several Facebook accounts, quotes a "Japanese doctor" who recommends drinking water every 15 minutes to remove any virus that may have entered the mouth.
In the fight against coronavirus, the most helpful water is that used to wash hands.
Professor Bloomfield says there is no evidence that this works for anything.
Airborne viruses enter the body through the respiratory tract when inhaled.
Some of them may come through your mouth, but constantly drinking water won't keep you from contracting the virus.
However, drinking water and keeping hydrated is generally good medical advice.
The World Health Organization (WHO) says that while it is "a healthy food that may have some antimicrobial properties," there is no evidence that eating garlic can protect people from the new coronavirus.
garlic may be good for general health, but it won't stop coronavirus
In many cases, such remedies are not harmful in themselves, as long as evidence-based medical advice is followed.
But abuses can have complex consequences.
The Journal
published the story of a woman who had to receive hospital treatment because her throat inflamed after consuming 1.5 kg of raw garlic.
It is known that, in general, eating fruits and vegetables and drinking water is good for staying healthy.
However, there is no evidence that specific foods help combat this particular virus.
The use of colloidal silver to combat coronavirus arose in the program of American evangelist Jim Bakker.
Colloidal silver is composed of small particles of metal suspended in liquid.
A guest of the show claimed that the liquid killed some strains of coronavirus in 12 hours (although he admitted that it had not yet been tested on Covid-19).
The idea that it could be an effective treatment for coronavirus was widely shared on Facebook, particularly by groups that deeply distrust conventional medical advice.
Proponents of colloidal silver claim that it can treat all kinds of conditions, act as an antiseptic and help the immune system.
But US health authorities say there is no evidence that this type of silver is effective in curing diseases.
More importantly, colloidal silver could cause serious side effects, such as kidney damage, seizures, and argyria, a condition that causes the skin to turn blue
Some of those who promote the substance on social media found that their publications now generate a warning from Facebook's data verification service.
YouTuber Jordan Sather, who has thousands of followers on different platforms, said that a "miraculous mineral supplement," called MMS, can "eliminate" coronavirus.
Sather and others promoted the substance even before the coronavirus outbreak, and in January tweeted that "not only chlorine dioxide (also known as MMS) is an effective killer of cancer cells, but can also eliminate coronavirus."
Last year, however, the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) warned of the health hazards of drinking MMS.
Health authorities in other countries have also issued warnings.
The FDA says that it "has no knowledge of any research that demonstrates that these products are safe or effective for treating any disease."
And he warns that drinking them can cause nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, and symptoms of severe dehydration.
In the same vein, there are also those who recommend spraying the body with alcohol or chlorine to kill coronavirus.
But, as the WHO explains, this would have no effect on the viruses that have already entered our body.
Rather, the organization warns, "spraying these substances can damage clothing and mucous membranes (i.e. eyes, mouth, etc.).
). "
This does not mean that these substances are not useful in the fight against coronavirus.
"Both alcohol and chlorine can be used to disinfect surfaces, provided the relevant recommendations are followed," WHO acknowledges.
Media around the world reported on the shortage of hand-disinfectant gel.
And it 's that, as we' ve already highlighted, washing hands is a key way to prevent the spread of the virus.
Some stores report that hand disinfectant gels have been depleted.
So, as information about the shortage in Italy was published, so were recipes for home ice cream on social networks.
But these recipes are to create a surface cleaning disinfectant and, as scientists have pointed out, is not suitable for use on the skin.
Alcohol-based hand gels generally also contain emollients, which make them softer for the skin, in addition to an alcohol content of 60-70%.
And Professor Bloomfield, of the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, says she doesn 't think it can be an effective product to disinfect hands in and out if it' s made with vodka, which only contains 40% alcohol.
For surface cleaning, the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) say that the most common domestic disinfectants should be effective.
And, when disinfected, the WHO also cautiously discourages the use of ultraviolet lamps to sterilize hands or other parts of the body.
You can now receive notifications from BBC World.
Download the new version of our app and activate it so you don't lose our best content.