The 4 Most Promising Coronavirus Drugs on Trial
Experts hope that by 2020, the US can have a vaccine.
Los Angeles.
The World Health Organization and its partners launched an international clinical trial called Solidarity, to help find effective treatment against COVID-19 coronavirus.
The Solidarity Study will compare four treatment options with the standard of care, to assess their relative effectiveness against COVID-19.
By registering patients in several countries, the aim of the trial is to quickly discover whether any of the drugs retards disease progression or improves survival.
Other drugs can be added based on emerging evidence.
Until there is sufficient evidence, WHO htps: / / www.who.int / health-topics / warns against doctors and medical associations recommending or administering these untested treatments to patients with COVID-19 or people who self-medicate with them.
The trial provides simplified procedures to allow participation of even overburdened hospitals, without the need for paperwork.
Since April 21, 2020, more than 100 countries are working together to find effective therapies as soon as possible, through testing.
Remdesivir was previously tested as a treatment against Ebola.
It has generated promising results in animal studies for Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS-CoV) and Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS), which are also caused by coronavirus, suggesting that it may have some effect on patients with COVID-19.
This drug was approved by the FDA as an emergency treatment a few days ago in the United States.
Lopinavir / Ritonavir is a licensed treatment for HIV.
Evidence for COVID-19, MERS and SARS has not yet been shown to improve clinical outcomes or prevent infection.
This trial aims to identify and confirm any benefit for patients with COVID-19.
While there is evidence from laboratory experiments that this combination may be effective against COVID-19, studies conducted so far in patients with COVID-19 have not been conclusive.
Interferon beta-1a is used to treat multiple sclerosis.
Chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine are closely related and are used to treat malaria and rheumatological conditions, respectively.
In China and France, small studies provided some indication of the potential benefit of chloroquine phosphate against COVID-19 pneumonia, but need to be confirmed by randomized trials.