The Origin of CORONAVIRUS (Video 2015)
They sent it to me on WhatsApp today and I freaked out.
The more you know about the virus, the less you understand what's going on.
What is clear is that this is not random and smells very but very bad.
The movements of pieces that are taking place at the geopolitical level right now cannot be imagined.
There are a lot of patents related to coronaviruses that cause SARS altered, in principle, to make vaccines and treatments to cure them.
The most recent Chinese events in May 2019.
This experiment, which comments on the creation of an altered coronavirus capable of human-to-human transmission, by the Chinese, would no longer be excused, the recognition that it has been created in the laboratory.
USA and Canada, at least they had it, or at least they also worked with coronavirus.
Even the Spanish CNI has recognized that having the complete genetic sequence they are able to synthesize it (created by artificial means, as they are able to remove genetic sequences to one organism and insert them to another) for their research in a vaccine.
It 's completely false, what various media have said, that you can' t create in a lab.
It can, it has been done, and more and more countries will be able to do it.
It seems to me like a war, like you 've dropped a nuclear bomb, but you get another one, and the two end up losing.
The last thing I 've read is that a Japanese man in the United States has created a strain of influenza A that is immune.
In this case, by selecting the most harmful strains in different generations, he says.
(Video revealing) Is Covid-19 a virus deliberately created by the Chinese?
The media conceal the information and we have the evidence COMPARTIR TAGS ChinoCovid 19DisenantInformationOcultanProportionPruebasVirus Carlota Sales Llop. - The major media appear to be mute, blind and deaf to a video that is circulating through the alternative and hidden channels of the Internet.
However, this video is not the production of an unknown youTuber, or the covers of some conspiracy theorist.
By no means: It is a video broadcast by RAI in 2015, and presented by the prestigious science programme "LEONARDO," of the same state-run network, which carried out a report based on information from the even more prestigious scientific journal 'Nature'.
Shortly after its broadcast, this video was "mysteriously" deleted from YouTube and completely censored on the Internet.
However, some anonymous believer in freedom of information has made it available to us with subtitles in Spanish, so that it is understood - and therefore, to terrify, frighten and appease - all those who see it.
The story is simple: in 2015, China incorporated a protein into the SARS virus - one that they say is so similar to Covid-19- that it made the virus that was located in bats - do you hear that? - infect humans by producing very acute, though - researchers say - non-fatal, pneumonia.
Does it sound like something to you?
Most suspect of all is that some media, which we know exist artificially to support the Government, have called the news a "hoax," despite acknowledging that the video, the information, and everything narrated is entirely true, but that it "does not correspond to Covid-19."
That is, they accept that it is liquid, that it is white, that it knows milk, that it smells like milk, that it serves to make cheese, that it comes from the cow, but whoever says it is cow's milk lies.
Like that.
That is what these progressive, cheap censors propose.
Everyone understands and accepts.
We don't.
If you have any doubts, we offer you the video of the, we repeat, extraordinarily prestigious Italian official program.
If they come to the same conclusion as us, and feel the victims of an attack with biological weapons, we will not be surprised.
WHAT THEY'RE GOING TO SEE AND ESCUCHAR IS A RAI TELEVISION PROGRAMME EMITTED IN 2015:
Son of a bitch.
He translated it "the dissident" _ "who's behind"
If you're stupid.
The only one saved is Samael.
There Is No Dissension or God
The Dissident 5310 subscribers
SUSCRIT
An Italian public television program RAI 3, specializing in scientific information, reported in 2015 the "achievement" of Chinese scientists who had managed to modify the SARS virus so that it could be transmitted from bats to humans and affect their respiratory tract.
Does that sound like something?
Translated into Spanish by a server and subtitled by Jedimalaga.
It says that that video is from 2005, but it might well be a FAKE created now, because that video was uploaded to youtube yesterday, and
I'm not saying it is, but it could be.
ikergutierrez said: It is totally false, what various media have said, that you cannot create in a laboratory.
It can, it has been done, and more and more countries will be able to do it.
The YouTuber of a date vloj put a video of an expert and said that in order to manipulate the virus and not leave a trace of the manipulation, they would have to invent another mathematical system so that scientists could not discover it.
He's not manipulated, he said.
I'm sorry. Fuck you.
wise brute said: The YouTuber of a date vloj put a video of an expert and said that in order to manipulate the virus and not leave traces of the manipulation, they would have to invent another mathematical system so that scientists could not discover it.
He's not manipulated, he said.
I'm sorry. Fuck you.
With all due respect, that sounds like bullshit to me..
Today there 's technology Hast to do this:
What you see is a stop / motion animation done by IBM, made one-to-one motion between frame and frame.
That's what the expert said.
I'll go look for him and see if I can see him.
He's still looking for it.
Ramón confidante said:
Click to expand...
Your source is a youTuber?
Okay...
aldebarian said: Your font is a youTuber?
Okay...
Among other things, and humorist as a prisoner.