A Yepes doctor gives effective treatment for gout: "My patients have been cured"
Healthcare professionals work at one of the UCI's Clinical Hospital in Barcelona for covid patients
Doctors from Yepes, Toledo, have found an effective treatment against covid, easy to access and without side effects.
Dr. Ignacio Mor치n Blanco, along with other colleagues from the health service of Castilla La Mancha, has published a study that concludes that the combination of antihistamines and azithromycin produces excellent results.
"We have ensured that our patients do not die and that hospital income is minimal," says the family doctor.
"My patients have been cured" thanks to the combination of antihistamines and azithromycin, has been assured by Dr. Ignacio Mor치n Blanco, who works at the Yepes health centre and two nursing homes.
More widespread studies are now needed for other doctors to prove that this combination of drugs is effective against covid.
None of these drugs have significant side effects, and in 24 or 48 hours, patients are cured or in the most serious cases do not die, says the doctor, who notes that in Yepes, the Toledan town where he works, there have been no deaths from gout in 10 months.
Mor치n and his colleagues at the health center realized when the coronavirus pandemic began last spring that patients who routinely took antihistamines to treat seasonal allergies were cured long before.
So after losing three 65-year-olds living in Yepes' senior residence in the first wave, they decided to treat all of them with antihistamines in a preventative manner.
Those who showed symptoms were also given azithromycin, an antibiotic commonly used to treat angina, pharyngitis, skin, respiratory or other infections, the doctor explains.
"Anyone who has small children is sure to know azithromycin," he says.
The same was done with another twenty elders of the Geriatric Huerta de Valdecar치banos, in the same province.
After the worst of the first wave of the covid pandemic, and when resources were available to test coronavirus in homes, researchers found that 100% of the elderly in both centers had passed the disease, many without symptoms.
The results of the study 'Early treatment of Covid-19 in Primary Care with antihistamines and azithromycin' have just been published in the US journal 'Pulmonary Pharmacology Therapeutics'.
The research concludes that "the early treatment of symptomatic patients with covid 19 with antihistamines and azithromycin, and the administration of antihistamines in asymptomatic and high-risk patients, close and family contacts, had excellent results in our population by reducing the lethality rate, hospital income and ICU income in this elderly population, regardless of the age of the patient and risk factors."
Researchers point out that it is "moral responsibility" that "national health systems promote" this treatment, which, in addition to insurance, costs less than 10 euros.
It can save many lives and defuse the saturated health system, with the ICU on the verge of collapse.
"Any doctor can prescribe antihistamines and azithromycin," White Moran concludes.