Very rich and sweet, but no, banana doesn't eliminate coronavirus
Sounds like a joke, but it's disinformation.
Social media claimed that "the banana blocks the cell entry of the coronavirus."
This false statement was shared thousands of times on Facebook and many people considered it true.
The image circulating on social media stated in a very formal language that: "The banana contains a lectin that is a potent anti-COVID19 blocking the cellular entry of the virus.
It is the potassium in which an antigen resistant to the COVID-19 virus has been discovered and removed from the human system.
One banana a day is recommended. "
You may be interested in: hugs, handshakes and hugs: how can we kiss in the
new normal
But although he uses hard words and his source is a prestigious Indian Hospital, none of this is true.
It is more, it makes no sense.
And if you're wondering, do Neta have to clear this up?
Well... yeah.
Obviously some people have taken this image as a meme.
But others spread the idea as if it were true.
For example, David Zurita Pérez, who is presumed to be Morena's candidate in the Macuspana City Council, Tabasco, went out distributing baskets and bananas in May, according to national media such as La Razón, Municipalities Puebla and El Universal.
Supposedly, Zurita Pérez delivered the fruit arguing that a group of scientists discovered that the banana "blocks the entry of the coronavirus into the body."
There is no food that cures or prevents COVID-19
Scientific research has advanced much since the discovery of the SARS-CoV-2 virus, which causes Covid-19, but so far there is no cure.
So says the World Health Organization:
Although some solutions from Western or traditional medicine or home remedies may prove comforting and alleviate the mild symptoms of Covid-19, so far no medication has been shown to prevent or cure this disease.
Can banana block the virus?
This idea that eating bananas can block the virus by containing lectin and potassium is false.
Dr. Uri Torruco, an infectologist from Veracruz, explained to
that in order to "block the virus" you would need to disable its entry into the cells.
The Sabbath
says: This publication on social media of false information about asymptomatic patients
According to studies done so far, SARS-CoV-2 is known to enter the body through the angiotensin II converting enzyme, also known as ECA2 or ACE2.
This enzyme is present around several human organs.
Imagine it 's a velcro, the virus has paws and ACE2 is the pelusitis.
So the authorities tell us and repeat and repeat that we wash our hands, use covers, keep a healthy distance and DO NOT touch our face.
The idea is to prevent SARS-CoV-2 patches from sticking to our ACE2.
For example, the National Library of Medicine published a study on March 4 on the role of ECA2 in COVID-19 infection.
According to this study, ACE2 "is the cellular receptor for severe acute coronavirus syndrome (SARS-CoV) and the new coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2)."
According to Torruco, there are substances that inhibit this ECA2, but it has already been proven that ACE inhibitors do not deactivate the virus.
Potassium is not an antigen
Regarding potassium, the infectologist explained that it is an element, not an antigen, and that, compared to the input of the virus, potassium is very small and "cannot be an antigen because an antigen is a substance that produces an immune response."
While "potassium exists in our body all the time."
Moreover, Torruco recalls that for health specialists to get to the dose required to achieve an effect many studies are made, it is not as easy as saying "eat a banana a day."
According to the encyclopedia
An antigen is "any substance that causes the immune system to produce antibodies against itself.
This means your immune system doesn't recognize the substance, and you're trying to fight it. "
The NIH also defines potassium as "a mineral found in many foods" and states that "the organism needs potassium for almost all its functioning, even for the proper functioning of the kidney and heart, muscle contraction and nerve transmission."
No evidence of the alleged source
The publication with false information ensures that everything is supported by the research of Dr. Sudhansu Bhattacharyya of Lilavati Hospital in India.
It even includes the institution's page.
Look, don't go with the fake, it's not possible to make a home-made mechanical respirator to treat Covid-19..................
We checked and Dr. Bhattacharyya does exist and is attached to the Department of Cardiovascular and Thoracic Surgery.
But nowhere on the page do we find that this doctor has done any research related to banana and COVID-19.
In our research we found that the same text circulated earlier in Spain where the verifiers of Maldito Bulo discredited it, but with a slight variation: the Spanish version attributes the research to Hugo López-Gatell.
Yes, our Under-Secretary for Health Promotion and Prevention!
By the way, we don't find any evidence to prove that López-Gatell said that either.
The claim that banana blocks banana cell entry was also verified by the team of Newtral, Bolivia Verica and AFP.
They all agreed and also call this text a false statement.
But well, we can do something rich with bananas, right?
To that end, focus here and you'll see the richest banana bread recipe we have for you...............