Minsa: Breast milk is a natural protector for the baby against COVID-19
Breast-feeding
During these months, thousands of women have given birth in the midst of the coronavirus pandemic, many believing that if they contracted the virus, they could infect their babies through breast milk.
This is false, as it does not transmit coronavirus, which is why lactation should not be suspended.
Mario Tavera, a pediatrician and adviser to the Ministry of Public Health, says that "the COVID-19 virus is not transmitted through breast milk."
If the mother has contracted the virus, "her milk will act as a defense for the baby," he detailed in statements to
According to the specialist, those who defeat coronavirus possess antibodies to the virus, so the mother possesses them, along with immunoglobulin G and macrophages, that are transmitted to the child through milk and that protect him against COVID-19, other infections and diseases.
"Breast milk, then, not only does not transmit COVID-19, but it is a natural protector and is fundamental at the beginning of life," said Tavera, also speaker of the campaign "Without doubt, give of milk," promoted by UNICEF and Minsa to promote and defend breastfeeding in the country.
It is important to clarify that breastfeeding should begin at the first hour after delivery, added the pediatrician and emphasized the need not to separate the child from his or her mother immediately to make weight and size records, among other things.
"That practice is absolutely questioned; moreover, the rules of the Minsa speak of simple procedures that guarantee the immediate relationship between the mother and the child and that favour both the start of breastfeeding and 'skin to skin' contact in the first hour of life," he said.
How to breastfeed if you're positive for COVID-19?
The doctor points out that if you have contracted the virus, you should follow general preventive measures, and always breast-feed with a mask on and wash your hands and nipples beforehand.
But that in no way limits the possibility of breastfeeding because, I repeat, the most important knowledge in this field is that coronavirus is not transmitted through the breast.
(...) There is no reason to limit breastfeeding, either in health services or at home, "he emphasized.
In the event that an infected mother is unable to lactate, the milk can be extracted with the help of a suction pump so that it can then be supplied to the baby.
Newsletter All about coronavirus
COVID-19 has put everyone on alert..
Subscribe to our newsletter All About Coronavirus, where you will find the most relevant daily data from the country and the world on the progress of the virus and the fight against its spread.