Trump Again Pushes Unproven Drugs as COVID-19 Treatment
WASHINGTON, DC (AP) - A week after appearing to project a more serious tone on coronaviruses, President Donald Trump has again pushed unproven claims that a malaria drug is an effective treatment and defies the credibility of the nation's leading infectious disease expert.
Dr. Anthony Fauci refused on Tuesday, saying he would continue to do his job.
Meanwhile, numerous studies have shown that the drug, hydroxychloroquine, is not an effective treatment for COVID-19, the disease caused by coronavirus.
And the US Food and Drug Administration recently withdrew an order allowing the use of drugs as emergency treatment for COVID-19.
Yet, night after returning from a trip to North Carolina where he promoted efforts to develop a COVID-19 vaccine, Trump retweeted a series of tweets advocating hydroxychloroquine.
The president also shared a Twitter account publication for a podcast hosted by Steve Bannon, Trump's former senior White House adviser, accusing Fauci of tricking the public about hydroxychloroquine.
Fauci, a prominent member of the White House coronavirus task force, turned down Tuesday during an appearance on ABC's Good Morning America.
"I agree with the FDA," said Fauci, the former director of the National Institute of Allergies and Infectious Diseases.
The overwhelming clinical trials that have analyzed the efficacy of hydroxychloroquine have indicated that it is not effective in coronavirus disease.
This is not the first time that Fauci has been attacked by Trump and his followers.
The president's chief trade adviser, Peter Navarro, who confronted Fauci for hydroxychloroquine, recently wrote a biting attack on the doctor that was published by USA Today.
Later, the newspaper said that the opinion article did not meet its standards.
In recent nationally televised interviews, Trump himself described Fauci as "a bit alarmist" and accused him of making "mistakes" in his guidance on coronavirus to the American people.
When asked if he can continue to do his job when Trump continues to publicly question his credibility, Fauci said Tuesday that he will continue "no matter what" because of the risks involved.
I don't even read them, so I really don't want to go there, "Fauci said.
I'll keep doing my job no matter what comes out because I think it's very important.
We are in the middle of a crisis with regard to an epidemic, a pandemic.
This is what I do.
This is what I have been trained for my entire professional life and will continue to do. "
When asked about the claims that he had been cheating the public, Fauci said, "I have not been cheating the American public under any circumstances."
COMPLETION OF HISTORY: