Why to wear double masks against coronavirus and how to do it
US President Joe Biden's Double Mask
Masks are essential to combat coronavirus, though not all protect equally.
Some experts recommend using double masks, putting one on top of the other, to increase their effectiveness.
That's how you have to do it to make it work............
Masks have become a basic protection against coronavirus during the pandemic.
By making good use of them you can avoid infecting others or even transmitting the virus to you.
Not all masks protect equally or have the same efficacy, depending on the type you use it will be most suitable for use in certain situations.
For example, FFP2 masks are more effective than surgical masks, and it is appropriate to place them in enclosed spaces, such as public transport or a trade.
Because not all masquerades are the same, some experts recommend home-made solutions to improve effectiveness easily.
You may have seen people wearing double masks, putting one on top of the other: this phenomenon has an explanation and may be more advisable than it seems.
Dr. Anthony Fauci, the expert virologist advising the US government against the coronavirus pandemic, recently recommended the use of double masks to the population.
Indeed, it is common to see current President Joe Biden using this method.
In statements for the string
Fauci has asserted that the double mask is a more than valid alternative: "If you have physical protection of one layer, you place another layer on top, it is common sense, as it is probably more effective."
Indeed, we need to know how to put it into practice so that this effectiveness actually increases.
Fauci explains that it is much better to wear a double-layer fabric mask on the outside, combining it with a disposable surgical mask on the inside.
If done this way, the outer double layer protects against splashes and drops, while the inner surgical mask absorbs the output and sweat, preventing the aerosols from spreading through the environment.
Another option is to put a surgical mask on top of a FFP2, an alternative that health professionals often prefer.
Although according to him
This is a cost-saving and non-health reason: as the surgical mask retains possible splashes the FFP2 that goes below can be used for more than 4 hours.