Cold, Cocaine, and Child Urine Against Coronavirus: The Myths Circulating in Networks
The World Health Organization (WHO) has stated that neither cold nor infant urine nor cocaine provide protection against the new coronavirus (2019-nCoV), by issuing a series of recommendations aimed at eliminating misinformation circulating on social media.
In response to the rumor that cold and snow can kill the virus, the WHO clarified that the normal body temperature remains around 36.5 and 37 °, regardless of outside temperature or weather conditions.
Therefore, there is no reason to believe that cold can kill the new coronavirus or kill other diseases.
The most effective way to protect against 2019-nCoV is to wash hands frequently with an alcohol-based disinfectant or with water and soap, WHO emphasized.
Regarding the rumor that infant urine can protect against the new coronavirus, the WHO noted that urine does not kill viruses or bacteria; indeed, urine may contain small amounts of viral or bacterial material.
On the rumour that cocaine can protect against the virus, WHO said that cocaine cannot protect against the new coronavirus and that cocaine is a stimulant and addictive drug whose use causes serious side effects and is harmful to people's health.
The WHO further reported that the new coronavirus cannot be transmitted through mosquito bites, and that it is a respiratory virus that spreads primarily through contact with an infected person through the respiratory droplets generated when that person sneezes or sneezes, for example, or through saliva droplets or nasal secretions.
To date, there is no information or evidence that 2019-nCoV may be transmitted by mosquitoes.
To protect themselves, WHO recommends avoiding close contact with anyone with fever and cough, and practicing good hygiene of the hands and respiratory tract.
The WHO further noted that the risk of becoming infected with the new coronavirus (2019-nCoV) by contact with objects such as coins, banknotes or credit cards is very low because preliminary information indicates that the virus can survive on a surface for a few hours or a little longer.
The international body further indicated that the new coronavirus (2019-nCoV) cannot spread over long distances through the air and that hand dryers do not kill the virus.
WHO further recalled that masks, including flat clinical masks and N95 filter masks, should not be reused; when a person has been in close contact with a person infected with the new coronavirus or other respiratory infection, the front part of the mask used should be considered.
The sanitary body also advised against the use of ultraviolet lamps against the virus because ultraviolet radiation can cause erythema (skin irritation), and also recommended not to spray the whole body with alcohol or chlorine because it does not kill viruses that have already entered the body.
Pulvering these substances can damage clothing and mucous membranes (i.e. eyes, mouth, etc.).
Both alcohol and chlorine can be used to disinfect surfaces, provided the relevant recommendations are followed.
WHO added that there are several measures that can be applied to protect themselves from the new coronavirus, starting with washing hands frequently with a hydroalcoholic gel or with water and soap.
Other protective measures recommended by WHO were published on this page.