Sunlight and chlorine can kill coronavirus in a park bench, but they can be harmful to your health.
(CNN) - Sunlight and chlorine can kill the new coronavirus, a federal official said at the White House daily briefing Thursday.
But US President Donald Trump has turned what should have been a simple scientific summary into a bewildering stream of dangerous ideas about transmitting light to the body and suggestions about injecting disinfectants.
This is what was said and what science really tells us about killing the virus safely.
Bill Bryan, a senior official in the U.S. Department of Homeland Security.
He said that studies on the virus showed that chlorine kills the coronavirus in about five minutes, and that isopropyl alcohol destroys it even faster.
Tests showed that the virus in saliva droplets survives best indoors and in dry conditions.
"The virus dies faster in the presence of direct sunlight under these conditions," he said.
Bryan, who is not a scientist, said that a biological laboratory of the U.S. Army.
U.
Outside of Washington D.C., he had been evaluating the virus.
"Our most surprising observation to date is the powerful effect that sunlight seems to have on the death of the virus, both on the surface and in the air," he said.
Temperature and humidity also affect how long the virus survives, Bryan said.
Vice President Mike Pence called Bryan's presentation "encouraging news about the impact of heat and sunlight on coronavirus, which will increase our confidence about next summer."
Bryan called it "another weapon in the fight we can add and in the summer."
But he added: "It would be irresponsible for us to say that we believe that summer will completely kill the virus.
However, we have the opportunity to move forward with what we now know and take it into account in decision-making. "
Earlier this month, members of an influential committee of the National Academy of Sciences told the White House in a letter that coronavirus does not appear to disappear once the climate warms, writing: "There is some evidence that [coronavirus] can be transmitted less efficiently in environments with higher ambient temperature and humidity, however, given the lack of host immunity worldwide, this reduction in transmission efficiency may not lead to a significant reduction in the spread of the disease without the concomitant adoption of important public health interventions."
The panel noted that the virus continued to spread in countries experiencing warm weather.
LEE: A prestigious scientific panel tells the White House that coronavirus will not disappear with a warmer climate
But how the virus reacts in a laboratory is not necessarily relevant to how it is transmitted.
It can be transmitted in very small particles of saliva or mucus that roach from people's mouths when they talk or cough, or from their nostrils when they sneeze.
But the particles don 't stay in the air for long, and they fall to the ground.
The danger of contracting the virus comes from being in close contact with someone who is infected and emitting particles through the nose and mouth, or touching something on which the virus-laden particles have landed.
Trump's Opinion
The findings that Bryan shared are not surprising.
Scientists have long known that chemicals such as bleach can kill viruses, including coronaviruses, as well as ultraviolet light.
What was perhaps surprising during Thursday's briefing was President Trump's view of Bryan's comments.
"Suppose we hit the body with a tremendous light, either ultraviolet or simply very powerful, and I think you said it hasn't been revised and you're going to try it," Trump told Bryan.
Suppose you can take the light inside the body.
It was not immediately clear how Trump would propose bringing light to the body.
And then I see the disinfectant knock him out in a minute.
Is there any way that we can do something like this by injecting or almost cleaning?
... it would be interesting to check that, "added Trump.
Trump's statement echoes myths and rumors that have become so rampant on the Internet and social media that the World Health Organization has published pages of myth hunters to refute them.
"Exposure to the sun or temperatures above 25 ° C does not prevent coronavirus disease," says WHO on its website.
You can catch covid-19, no matter how sunny or hot the weather is.
Countries with a warm climate have reported cases of covid-19, "he adds.
It also specifically warns against the use of ultraviolet lamps, including tanning lamps, to try to kill the virus.
"UV lamps should not be used to sterilize hands or other areas of the skin as UV radiation can cause skin irritation," warns WHO.
Ultraviolet light damages the skin and causes cancer if people are exposed too much.
And chlorine is toxic.
He can and kills people who drink it.
U.S. Food and Drug Administration.
U.
regularly warns the public against the consumption of chlorine or even the inhalation of chlorine vapors.
It is also irritating to the skin.
Last week, the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
U.
(CDC said that calls about poisonings with cleaners and disinfectants had increased by more than 20% in the first three months of 2020, as coronavirus cleaning increased, as it did in the same period of the previous year................
Among cleaners, blenders accounted for the largest percentage increase in calls between 2019 and 2020.
The CDC recommends using soap and water or soap to kill the virus.
Fruiting alcohol with at least 70% alcohol will also kill you on the surfaces; 60% for your hands.