Experts clarified that newspaper paper does not transmit coronavirus
The diary goes down the door early, before the alarm sounds.
As the coffee is made, the newspaper gains the table space and begins reading.
However, in times of coronavirus , Luis repeats a question in his head: "Can the diary that they bring me every day infect us?"
And the overwhelming response of specialists: no.
Of course, the claim also comes with those ingredients that have already been incorporated into the routine at this quarantine, such as hand washing and surface disinfection.
The infectivists consulted by Clarin agreed that "the main transmission mechanism of coronavirus is by air, basically through coughing, sneezing, or talking to infected people who remove the virus to a susceptible person."
That is, explains doctor Eduardo López (MN 37.586), "it is removed by thick drops"
With regard to printed paper, there are a number of works and recommendations, including the World Health Organization, which say that printed paper such as newspapers, advertisements and so on do not infect and transmit coronavirus.
As for the role of the newspaper, it is categorical and it is said that there is no risk of long-term contamination and of people, "explains one of the eight experts who have been advising President Alberto Fernández since the beginning of the pandemic.
Lopez adds that, therefore, "the current recommendation is that the journal can be read without major problem the same as receiving packages or envelopes that are also in the background printed material, does not seem to be important."
In the same line is the discussion of whether paper money, the note, infects.
The risk is apparently very low and most banks recognize that it is not an important or critical route for the transmission of COVID-19 virus, "she adds.
Tomás Orduna (MN 61,528) is also a member of the committee of doctors and scientists who advise the Government.
Although he did not read any papers detailing the paper difference as well as studies indicating "how long he survives in clothing, plastic or stainless steel, which can be three days," he advises taking the same collections as when going to the supermarket.
"Buying a diary involves buying a surface on which there is potentially coronavirus as on all surfaces, a pack of sugar or one of yerba: I don't know if anyone touched, tugged or sneezed on that pack then I buy it but I follow all my hygiene measures," he explains.
He states: "I go to the toilet with a razor, wash my hands when I come home, watch it for an hour and a half, and when I finish reading it I discard it for recycling.
I'm going back to wash and clean the surface of the table. ".
He acknowledges that "it's a practice that costs money today" but that "these are times when you should be more obsessive."
"If you keep these steps and buy it, come and disinfect my hands, put the diary above a table, do the reading for all the necessary time, discard for recycling and clean the surfaces, I see no possibility of contagion.
It is the only recommendation, "developed by the Chief of the Regional Pathology and Tropical Medicine Service of the Infections Hospital Francisco J. Muñiz.
Ricardo Teijeiro (MN 58.065), a member of the Argentine Society of Infectology, concludes that "hand washing is sufficient before touching the face and can take it as a behavior."
While I have read evidence of coronavirus transport through paper, not so in relation to newspaper paper.
The suggestion, like when you are going to buy anything and take the risk, has to be hand washing after touching the diary and not touching your face while reading it, because it is the hands that are going to take the paper of the diary into your mouth, do not approach the paper of the diary in your face.
What would we do in a hospital, where paper is work material, like with every patient 's clinical history?
Therefore, the recommendation is that after touching any hand-to-hand paperboard, you wash your hands and do not touch your face.
It's common sense, "she stresses.
Experts' opinions add up to what Omar Plaini, General Secretary of the Canillitas Syndicate, had warned: "I understand the fear but the virus can be put on any product.
The newspaper does not transmit the virus. "
Alberto knows this, but still takes all the proceeds in his position of Martín García y Piedras, in the Barracas neighborhood.
With his homemade barbeque, alcohol in ice and a solution based on lavender and water, this canillite disinfects his workplace but acknowledges that "in the wake of the news that came out of the TV, clients of all life to whom the diary was carried went down."
Then, in response, he decided to put in every journal the WHO's resolution that discards the contagion by paper.
"Just as sales fell because many of the neighborhood's biggest customers for fear fell," he shares.
Despite the distance, something similar happens to Gaston, in the post of Laprida and San Martín in Lomas de Zamora.
"It sells little because a lot of big people don't go out looking for the diary," he says, surrounded by his new protective equipment: barbiturates, ice alcohol and gloves.
Just as multiple routines have been modified and no product comes out of the market that is not disinfected with aqueous solutions based on lavender or alcohol, there is no scientific evidence to banish the habit of reading the diary but should be expanded to include frequent (and conscious) hand washing from now on.
Source: Clarin