The first coronavirus drugs arrive
Chloroquine, approved against malaria and some autoimmune diseases, has become the first drug to demonstrate efficacy against the new coronavirus.
Following chloroquine comes remdesivir, which was developed for Ebola and is being tested in 761 patients in a study that will be presented on April 27.
It is followed by Kaletra, which combines two drugs created against HIV and is also expected to be effective against coronavirus.
Never before had so many treatments been tried or so quickly against a disease, indicating the level of emergency that Covid-19 implies.
There are more than a hundred ongoing clinical trials in China assessing the potential efficacy of all kinds of treatments, from antivirals to immune system modulators, to stem cells, traditional Chinese medicine therapies, and antibodies donated by people who have been cured.
The strategy: try it all
More than 100 clinical trials are underway to test all types of therapies
All these trials are based on treatments initially applied to other diseases.
Looking to the future, researchers around the world are studying the new coronavirus called SARS-CoV-2 to obtain specific therapies against it.
Not all treatments in the study will be equally effective and safe, so many will be discarded.
The first two that showed efficacy in cell culture trials were chloroquine and remdesivir, as announced by researchers at the Wuhan Institute of Virology on February 4 in the journal
A doctor shows chloroquine and hychloroquine tablets GERARD JULIEN / AFP
Chloroquine, known since 1924, is a cheap and safe drug that modulates the immune system and inhibits the replication of different types of viruses - including HIV and coronaviruses.
In the first 15 clinical trials conducted in China in patients hospitalized with Covid-19, it has been shown to prevent serious complications of pneumonia and shorten the duration of the disease, according to results presented on 19 February in the
Based on these results, the authors of the clinical trials have recommended that the National Health Commission of China include chloroquine in the Covid-19 treatment protocol.
The main candidates
In addition to chloroquine, one drug is expected to be effective for Ebola and another for HIV
Remdesivir, for its part, is a new drug that has not yet been approved for the treatment of any disease.
Developed by the American biotechnology company Gilead Sciences, it acts against various types of viruses by preventing the replication of their RNA.
It has shown activity against coronavirus in mice as well as in human lung cells infected with this virus.
Production of chloroquine in a factory in Nantong XU CONGJUN / EFE
The results of the first clinical trials with Wuhan patients are expected in late April, and, if the drug proves to be effective and safe, China could approve it in May, Shibo Jiang, a virologist at Fudan University in Shanghai, told the magazine
Natura
Gilead Sciences announced this week that it will now begin two more clinical trials of remdesivir with almost a thousand patients from other countries in March.
An alternative strategy is not to attack the virus directly, but to act on the immune system to mitigate the effects of infection.
With SARS coronavirus, some of the most serious complications were observed to be due to excessive activation of the immune system that triggered an immune reaction at fatal times.
Phrases such as baricitinib, already approved for rheumatoid arthritis, have been proposed to reduce inflammation without impairing the ability of lymphocytes to attack coronavirus.
Nantong factory workers prepare the bottles to distribute the chloroquine XU CONGJUN / EFE
Chinese medicine also provides possible treatments that are being tested in fifteen clinical trials involving more than 2,000 people.
One of the largest, with 400 participants, evaluates the
Shuanghuanglian
, an extract from the plant
which has been used for centuries against infections.
The World Health Organization (WHO) is working with Chinese scientists to ensure that clinical trials are rigorous enough to make their results useful.
As stated in
Soumya Swaminathan, of the WHO, "we want a scientific approach to the trials of traditional medicine."