Coronavirus and Food
Although some indications point to the possibility of eating a bat or other foodstuff in China, it could be the cause of the new COVID-19 coronavirus, and a list of foods that could infect this disease is already circulating on social media, the fact is that none of this has been confirmed.
The only fact is that the highest authority on food security for Europe, the EFSA), published on its website on 9 March an informative statement stating that, in the light of current scientific evidence, food is not a likely source or route of transmission of COVID-19.
Marta Hugas, who is the EFSA's chief scientist, has stated "Previous experiences of related coronavirus outbreaks, such as the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus (SARS-CoV) and the Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV), show that transmission through food consumption does not occur.
For the time being, there is no evidence to suggest that coronavirus is different in this respect. "
The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) has said that, while animals in China were the likely source of the initial infection, the virus is spreading from person to person, mainly through respiratory droplets that people sneeze, cough or exhale.
Scientists and authorities around the world are monitoring the spread of the virus and there have been no reports of transmission through food.
For this reason, EFSA is not currently participating in the measures taken in respect of COVID-19 outbreaks.
However, they are thoroughly checking the scientific literature for new and relevant information.
With regard to food safety, the World Health Organization (WHO) has issued precautionary recommendations that include advice on the follow-up of good hygiene practices during food handling and preparation, such as washing hands, cooking meat thoroughly and avoiding possible cross-contamination between cooked and non-cooked foods.
But not because such contagion is predicted, but simply as preventive measures.
Therefore, today for today, food does not infect coronavirus.