The Spanish drug Aplidin is postulated as a definitive solution to the pandemic.
PharmaMar gallic drug Aplidin, 99% more effective against Covid
Aplidine, I'm thirsty.
Great news for Spain.
inventors of suck-ups, and discoverers of the cure for pure coronavirus may be doing peace experiments against cancer.
Zparo repeated: Great news for Spain.
inventors of suck-ups, and discoverers of the cure for pure coronavirus may be doing peace experiments against cancer.
Selling bear skin before hunting it is a very characteristic of Spain Estepaís
BigJoe said: Selling the bear's skin before hunting it is a very characteristic of Spain Estepais
Of course, but now there 's interest from abroad, and that drug was massively marketed by the summer.
Putting something in my body that makes up a galley, I'm not that drunk yet.
Greetings.
Better Galicia than Catalan Grifols
Zapatitos said: Put something in my body that invents a galley, I'm not so drunk yet.
Greetings.
What a fool, it seems to fuck you with this supersuccess of the Spanish farm industry
Zparo repeatedly said: that silly, it seems to fuck you this supersuccess of the Spanish farma industry
But what sub-normal success if the covid is the new name they've given to the flu every year.
Greetings.
Zapatistas said: But what subnormal success if covid is the new name they have put on the flu every year.
Greetings.
Likewise, if the drug is effective in fighting the cold or new flu and minimizing deaths and hospitalizations, it will be a big step forward in getting out of this bad situation.
They would have lots of papers to win the Nobel Prize in Medicine.
Zparo said: The drug Aplidin from the gall PharmaMar, 99% more effective against Covid
27.5 times more potent than reskilling against SARS-CoV-2 in vitro
Looks like it looks good.
The original of the study on the following link:
Aplidine - > Plitvice
COMPLETE TEXT
ANNEX
(machine translation)
RESEARCH ARTICLE
Platidepsin has a potent preclinical efficacy against SARS-CoV-2 by targeting the host protein eEF1A.
SARS-CoV-2 viral proteins interact with eukaryotic translation machinery and translation inhibitors have powerful antiviral effects.
Here we report that the drug plitidepsin (aplidine), which has limited clinical approval, has antiviral activity (IC 90 = 0.88 nM) 27.5 times more potent than remdesivir against SARS-CoV-2 in vitro, with limited toxicity in cell culture.
Using a drug-resistant mutant, we show that the antiviral activity of plitidepsin against SARS-CoV-2 is mediated by inhibition of the known target eEF1A.
We demonstrated the efficacy in vivo of plitidepsin treatment in two SARS-CoV-2 mouse models with a reduction of viral replication in the lungs by two orders of magnitude using prophylactic treatment.
Our results indicate that plitidepsin is a promising therapeutic candidate for COVID-19.
IMAGINE
a spoiler,
sivigliano said: Whatever, if the drug is effective for fighting the cold or new flu and minimizing deaths and hospitalizations will be a great step forward to get out of this bad situation.
They would have lots of papers to win the Nobel Prize in Medicine.
But what new flu or what eight quarters if it 's the old flu with another name that according to the mutation every year is more or less virulent.
And there is no progress against such a disease other than the usual individual precautions that can be taken to gain immunity and take the best care possible.
Everything else is subnormality.
Greetings.
Well, well... let's get to the point.
Are gender quotas being respected in PharmaMar?
Where do they tax, in Spain or in Andorra?
Is there representation of all non-visible ethnic groups / minorities in your staff?
I am surprised that humanity's great hope is not covered in all the world's newspapers.
Zparo once again said, of course, but now there is interest from abroad and that drug would be marketed massively by the summer.
Like the vaccine... you can't be dumber than yourself.