Hydrochloroquine "cures Covid-19," but is there a conspiracy by Gates and Fauci to ban it?
What is it?
"Hydrochloroquine, the drug that was not in the World Order's plans," is the headline of a publication circulating on social media.
The text mentions a "Dark Skull" conspiracy, supposedly led by Bill Gates and Anthony Fauci, against the drug that is cheap and "cures Covid-19."
The target?
Sell your vaccine chipped, full of chemicals harmful to human health.
Data verification.
Polygraph
Hydrochloroquine is a malaria drug used for 70 years and is safe.
The problem is that it comes at a ridiculous price.
In fact, those who created this virus knew that if they contracted it, they had the antidote; and they are obviously vaccinated.
What the "Dark Skull" did not count on was that its secret was discovered and that is its "Achilles heel," comments the text of the disputed publication.
When rumors began to emerge that hydroxychloroquine was healing, a destructive machinery was put into operation by which it was claimed that the drug was unreliable and that, in fact, it had many serious contraindications.
From one moment to the next, the mighty
Lobby
of the pharmaceutical industry along with social communication decided to prevent the truth from being known, but this movie is a constant repetition.
(...) The "Dark Skull" (Bill Gates, Anthony Fauci) is desperate to ban this drug, because only then will they be able to sell their vaccine.
full of chemicals harmful to human health, "she adds.
Do these claims have a proven basis or scientific validity?
As Polygrapher has already emphasized in several recent articles (see here or here, among other examples), contrary to what is claimed by multiple conspiracy theories circulating on social media, there is no confirmation that the new coronavirus was artificially created in the laboratory.
On March 17, 2020, a scientific study was published that demonstrates the natural origin of SARS-CoV-2, the new coronavirus that caused the Covid-19 pandemic worldwide.
"Our analysis clearly shows that SARS-CoV-2 is neither a laboratory construct nor a deliberately manipulated virus," the authors of the study claim.
As for hydroxychloroquine, as Polygraph noted in a recent article, the Directorate General of Health (DGS) reports that the drug, like Remdesivir and Lopinavir / Ritonavir, "are experimental antiviral therapies, as there is still no scientific evidence for its specific therapeutic recommendation (Covid-19)."
Currently there are no authorised medicines for the treatment of Covid-19.
No vaccine is authorized.
However, several molecules have been identified as potential therapeutic candidates.
To date, taking into account current scientific knowledge and WHO recommendations, among the various therapeutic strategies in research are: Remdesivir, Lopinavir / Ritonavir and Cloroquine or Hydroxychloroquine, "according to the contents of a DGS document of March 23, 2020, entitled" Treatment of the patient with suspicion of SARS-CoV-2 infection, "which establishes guidelines regarding the new coronavirus pandemic.
As for hydroxychloroquine, as Polygraph noted in a recent article, the Directorate General of Health (DGS) reports that the drug, like Remdesivir and Lopinavir / Ritonavir, "are experimental antiviral therapies, as there is still no scientific evidence for its specific therapeutic recommendation (Covid-19)."
In summary, none of these drugs have yet proven efficacy in the treatment of Covid-19.
Much less with regard to the so-called 'cure' of the disease..
However, some new data have emerged regarding the use of hydroxychloroquine in the treatment of Covid-19.
For example, on April 23, the Federal Council of Medicine (CFM) informed the Government of Brazil that it does not recommend the use of hydroxychloroquine for patients in the treatment of Covid-19, but admitted medical prescription in some cases.
The recommendation took place at a meeting between representatives of the CFM and President Jair Bolsonaro at the Palácio do Planalto in Brasilia, the Lusitana Agency reported.
The Federal Council of Medicine does not recommend the use of hydroxychloroquine.
What we are doing is giving the Brazilian doctor the right to use the drug, in a decision shared with his patient.
An authorization is not a recommendation, "said CFM president Mauro Luiz de Britto Ribeiro, after the meeting.
According to Mauro Ribeiro, there is "no solid scientific evidence" on the efficacy of the substance for the treatment of Covid-19, but the organism explains that in some situations the drug is allowed.
Physicians may prescribe hydroxychloroquine to patients with severe cadres admitted to ICU or to patients with mild cadres, even at the start of treatment; but they must have the consent of patients or family members.
As in Portugal, hydroxychloroquine is already used in Brazil for the treatment of malaria and other diseases.
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _....
Editorial note: this content was selected by the Polygraph in the context of an alliance between data verification and Facebook, with the aim of assessing the veracity of the information circulating in that social network.
On Facebook's assessment scale, this content is:
False: the main arguments of the contents were found to be inaccurate; generally, this option corresponds to the "False" or "Mostly False" classifications on fact checkers sites.
In the Polygraph's evaluation scale, this content is: