Coronavirus in Mexico: how contact tracing works to detect COVID-19 cases
Contact tracing is a strategy that aims to cut the COVID-19 transmission chain (Photo: EFE / Sashenka Gutiérrez)
Coronavirus disease continues to advance in Mexico.
According to the Secretariat of Health (SSa), as of this Saturday 3 October, 757,953 positive cases and 78,880 cumulative deaths have been recorded by COVID-19.
In this context, Mexico City health authorities launched a strategy to track people who had contact with patients infected with SARS-CoV-2 and thus implement actions that help mitigate its spread.
The goal of the COVID-19 case detection, protection and protection program and its contacts is to break the coronavirus transmission chain.
As of this Saturday, October 3, 757,953 positive cases and 78,880 cumulative deaths from COVID-19 in Mexico have been recorded (Photo: Reuters / Edgard Garrido)
How Tracking Works
If your test for the disease has been positive, the Mexican government will provide you with support, medical care, and everything you need to protect yourself at home and recover from the disease.
However, in order to identify people who may have been infected with the disease, you need to know who you have been in contact with for three days before presenting symptoms.
According to the Capital Health Secretariat, the data you provide will be protected; only if you are in contact with a positive case will you receive a call from LOCATEL number 55 54 8404 00 to see you that you may be at risk without knowing it, as there are likely no symptoms yet present.
Once you have been contacted, suspected cases will be asked to isolate themselves and an appointment will be made to conduct the test to detect the disease.
Only if you are in contact with a positive case will you receive a call from LOCATEL number 55 54 8404 00 to see you who might be at risk without knowing it (Photo: EFE / Jorge Méndez)
If it is determined that any of the people tracked represent a new case of infection, they must be kept isolated for 14 days and then re-report their contacts three days before they show symptoms, thus completing the tracking cycle.
The Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) warns that coronavirus contact tracing works best with everyday preventive actions such as social estrangement and hygiene measures.
The CDC notes that close contact is when a person has been less than 1.8 meters away for at least 15 minutes from another diagnosed with the disease.
A patient infected with SARS-CoV-2 can spread it for 48 hours or two days before presenting any symptoms or obtaining a positive test result to detect it.
Each week, capital authorities update the list of colonies that will be treated as a priority to concentrate the largest number of positive cases active in the city (Photo: EFE / Jose Pazoz)
Another effort of the capital government to stem the epidemic is the installation of health kiosks distributed in 158 priority care colonies.
Since July 15, the administration headed by Claudia Sheinbaum has launched this focused strategy to test for COVID-19 and to assess medically in the event of symptoms such as fever, headache, general discomfort and shortness of breath.
Attention is provided from Monday to Friday; the specific time for the application of diagnostic tests is from 9: 00 to 1: 00.
Each week, capital authorities update the list of colonies that will be treated as a priority to concentrate the largest number of active positive cases in the city.
In the care modules, all services offered are free and are guaranteed as part of the capital government's strategy to deal with the health emergency by coronavirus.