It's false that a pharmaceutical company created the coronavirus.
While the new coronavirus 2019-nCoV continues to infect hundreds of people, social media is taking advantage of the opportunity to create fake news.
One of them claimed that a "multi-billion-dollar pharmaceutical business (is) behind coronavirus."
According to the viral publication, the name of the "creator of the coronavirus" is Raúl Rodolfo Abhduz Khan, who is allegedly "the biochemical engineer of Karmalah Laboratories."
The image shared on Facebook and Twitter is a montage that uses a photograph of a man and the image of the CNN news network.
They thus pose CNN as the author of this information, but it was not actually published on their official website.
The person appearing in the publication is Spanish YouTuber Raul Alvarez, better known as AuronPlay.
This is not the first time that the image of this character has been taken up on social media to accuse him of any fact.
For example, in April, he was blamed for the fire in Notredame and in August he was blamed for setting the Amazon on fire.
Auron Play's YouTube channel
For some it was a joke, for others it caused confusion and anger.
But above all, it becomes a source of disinformation.
AuronPlay itself has shown concern by being a frequent victim of fake news.
Listen, you bastards, just use my photos to say I'm going to put bombs out there if someday I'm going to Colombia I'm going to put a fucking shot in my balls pic.twitter.com / sK2BhTR52A - AuronPlay (@auronplay) January 17, 2019
Where did the coronavirus come from?
2019-nCoV is one of seven coronaviruses known so far and was first detected in Wuhan City, Hubei Province, China.
According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), available sequences suggest a possible recent emergence of a virus related to bat coronaviruses and SARS coronaviruses.
It is not clear how this virus is spreading among the people.
At first, patients in the Wuhan outbreak had some link to a seafood and animal market, suggesting animal-to-person spread.
But new cases have been detected where the infected had no contact with markets or animals.
This suggests that a person-to-person spread is taking place.
A recent study published in the Journal of Medical Virology suggests that it appears to be a recombinant virus between the bat coronavirus and a coronavirus of unknown origin.
Researchers analyzed the genetic sequence of the new coronavirus to search for patterns in the genetic code and concluded that 2019-nCoV might have come from snakes.
What we do in Political Animal requires professional journalists, teamwork, dialogue with readers and something very important: independence.
You can help us follow.
I'm part of the team.
Subscribe to Political Animal, receive benefits and support free journalism.
YoSoyAnimal