Using blankets does not pose a health risk
Despite rumors on social media, the use of blankets does not affect health.
Now that the use of coveralls is being demanded in Dallas County and in many parts of the country, misinformation about its effectiveness in fighting coronavirus has been spreading.
Viral social media publications in recent weeks claim that the mask can have harmful effects, such as depriving the body of oxygen, causing the person to inhale dangerous amounts of previously exhaled carbon dioxide, and weakening the immune system of the user.
It 's true that some experts say that some people shouldn' t wear covers, like children under 2 years of age, people who have health problems that cause difficulty breathing, and people who can 't take off the covers by themselves.
But experts say that apart from being slightly uncomfortable using it for a long time, the coating does not cause disease.
This is what you should know:
The cover does not reduce the oxygenation of the body
In social media, it has been said that the lining reduces the level of oxygen in the body, causing hypoxemia (lack of oxygen in the blood) or hypoxia (lack of oxygen in the tissues).
Both conditions can be severe, and cause shortness of breath, coughing, slow or rapid heart rate, rapid breathing, sweating, wheezing, and changes in skin coloration.
Treatment usually requires hospitalization, and in severe cases it may be necessary to connect the patient to a respirator or other device to help him breathe.
But it is unlikely that the cover will cause these effects.
A mask "will impose some resistance to the breathing process, so it will feel like it needs a little more effort to breathe, but it does not materially change the constitution of the air that enters through the mask," said virologist Angela Rasmussen, a research scientist at Columbia University.
And while using covers can be uncomfortable, it 's only because people aren' t used to using them, not because they 're having a negative effect on their health.
"Thin paper or fabric masks do not cause hypoxia," said BBC Keith Neal, Professor Emeritus of Epidemiology of Infectious Diseases at the University of Nottingham.
Surgeons operate with them for hours and they don't have those problems.
According to the Mayo Clinic, the normal amount of oxygen in a person's blood is between 95% and 100%, and any value below 90% is considered low.
Since social media has been claiming that the blanket causes an oxygen deficiency, doctors and other health professionals have posted photos of themselves wearing masks and using a pulsoxymeter to show that they do not have that effect.
No cause of carbon dioxide poisoning
Another thing that has been said on social media is that the blanket causes hypercapnia, or high concentration of carbon dioxide in the blood, as a result of inhaling air that had been exhaled.
Mild to moderate cases of hypercapnia are characterized by shortness of breath, headache, fatigue, delirium and confusion.
Serious cases can occur in tremors in the hands, muscle spasms and seizures, experts say.
But the problem is likely to be caused by underlying diseases or other conditions such as hypothermia, metabolic or nervous system disorders, apnea, or stroke.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) told Reuters that although it is possible that some carbon dioxide may accumulate in the lining, it is most likely to be at an imperceptible level for the person.
"CO2 will slowly accumulate in the mask," a CDC representative told Reuters.
But the level of CO2 that accumulates is mostly tolerable for the person.
It may hurt his head, but he is most likely not to suffer the symptoms seen at higher concentrations of CO2. "
The mask can become uncomfortable for several reasons, such as CO2 resistance, and the person will feel motivated to remove it.
A mask is unlikely to cause hypercapnia. "
Surgical masks are porous and allow carbon dioxide molecules to flow through them.
The fabric, which the CDC has encouraged to use, is much more porous.
As surgical or fabric masks often leave openings between them and the skin, any additional carbon dioxide volume will escape, say experts.
"It would have to be a very high concentration to cause harm," said Bill Carroll, associate professor of chemistry at Indiana University Bloomington, Health.
CO2 is present in the atmosphere at a level of approximately 0.04%.
It is dangerous in the atmosphere when it is more than 10%. "
Some studies have determined that health professionals who use enhanced personal protective equipment, including N95 respirators, for long periods may experience headache, but not extreme symptoms of hypercapnia.
Do not weaken your immune system
Some social media publications claim that the cover weakens the person's immune system because it prevents the entry of certain particles into the body, making it unable to fight diseases that he was used to fighting because he would no longer "remember."
The mask does not prevent the inhalation of infectious particles; rather, it creates a barrier to the infectious particles that the person is exhaling.
The reason health authorities are insisting on the use of bedspreads is because an infected person may be spreading the disease before showing symptoms.
The idea is that if everyone used covers, we would be protecting each other.
Specialists also say that the claim that defenses weaken is false because infectious particles enter the organism in other ways, not just through the mouth.
"Most food, for example, unless it is made in exceptionally clean or sterilized conditions, contains some microbes," wrote Dr. Victoria Forster, a post-doctoral professor at The Hospital for Sick Children in Toronto, Canada.
I'm sorry.
The same is true of tap or bottled water; in fact, the latter may contain even more bacteria.
Many people don't wash their hands religiously before eating and thus transfer tons of environmental microbes directly to their organism. "
A 10-second kiss with your partner will transfer 80 million bacteria from one mouth to another.
Other experts have said that even an order to stay home for several weeks will not drastically alter a person's immune system, because activities like going to the store or walking expose the body to enough bacteria and other particles to keep the immune system healthy.