The Canadian doctor's claim that coronavirus is a "farce" is false
If you only have a few seconds, I read these lines:
Unlike Roger Hodkinson, the flu virus and COVID-19 are different.
The number of people infected and the mortality rate of the new coronavirus are higher than those of influenza, according to the World Health Organization (WHO).
Furthermore, contrary to what Hodkinson claims, the use of masquerades and social estrangement are useful as preventive measures.
Several statements made by Canadian physician Roger Hodkinson about the new coronavirus are circulating on Facebook during a video conference at the Edmonton City Hall.
In his speech, he notes that "COVID-19 is a farce" and that "it's just a bad flu season."
He added that "masquerades are absolutely useless" and "there is no evidence of the effectiveness of social estrangement."
However, these claims are false.
The publication was shared on Facebook nearly 500 times.
In addition, Hodkinson's statements - which circulated in English, Portuguese, Polish, Croatian and Serbian - were verified by AFP Factual fact-checking.
COVID-19 is just a bad flu season.
FALSE
This is not the first time that coronavirus is flu-like.
However, as Chequeado explained in this note, they deal with different viruses, with very different consequences.
Both viruses can cause respiratory problems and spread similarly - via droplets that the infected person expels.
But the number of people who get infected, the mortality rate, and the people most at risk of infection are different.
The reproductive number - the number of people who get infected from a case - is estimated by the World Health Organization (WHO) to be between 2 and 2.5, a higher number than the flu.
The estimated mortality rate from infection (IFR) of seasonal influenza is approximately 0.04%, while for COVID-19 it ranges from 0.5% to 1%, more than ten times that of seasonal influenza.
Finally, children, pregnant women, older people, people with underlying chronic conditions - such as asthma or diabetes, among others - and immunocompromised people are at greater risk of contracting a severe influenza infection.
In the case of COVID-19, however, WHO argues that only advanced age and underlying conditions increase the risk of serious infection.
Masquerades and social estrangement are absolutely useless.
FALSE
A WHO-funded analysis published on 27 June 2020 in The Lancet argues that, after 176 studies in 16 countries, protection and social estrangement teams are effective.
The conclusion was that "current policies of keeping at least one meter away are associated with a large reduction in infection, and distances over two meters are even more effective."
And the study added that "the use of facial masks results in a great reduction in the risk of infection."
In this regard, WHO points out that the use of masquerades and social estrangement are part of a comprehensive strategy of measures to suppress transmission and save lives.
However, "the use of a mask alone is not sufficient to provide adequate protection against COVID-19."
Among the precautions are physical distancing, wearing masks, ventilating rooms, avoiding agglomerations, washing hands and covering the mouth and nose with the elbow flexed or with a cough handkerchief.
This check is part of the
Initiative
In the case of photos and videos we work with images made or taken from context and we always analyse the images together with the text with which they were presented.
Did you like this note?
Help us maintain this project.