What animal was the origin of Covid-19: WHO travels to China to find it
A bat, a pangolin... a year after the coronavirus pandemic, the true origin has yet to be found.
A pangolin.
/ ew
A team of experts from the World Health Organization (WHO) has traveled to China to start research on the origin of coronavirus, more than a year after its outbreak and in a context of increasing cases in Europe and North America.
The mission of the WHO is composed of ten scientists from various countries renowned in their different fields, and aims to find out how the virus was transmitted to humans.
In general, scientists think that the original host of the virus is a bat, but it is not yet known which intermediate animal caused the virus to infect humans.
The WHO notes that we know enough data about other coronavirus viruses, and most of these types of viruses have their origin in animals.
The COVID-19 virus (also called SARS-CoV-2) is a new virus in humans and the possible animal source of COVID-19 has not yet been confirmed, but is being investigated.
When China first identified the disease just a year ago, it secretly launched its search for Patient Zero, which was supposedly infected by an animal.
A pangolin?
More recent studies call this theory into question, although they claim that Covid-19 may have originated in bats and spread to humans from another, yet unknown, intermediate host.
The finding of this zero patient is what gives rise to the theory, persistently denied by the scientific community in the following months, that SARS-CoV-2 'escaped' accidentally from a Wuhan laboratory.
Can a domestic animal or other animal infect me with COVID-19?
Several dogs and cats (domestic cats and tigers) have tested positive for COVID-19 after having been in contact with infected humans.
In addition, it appears that hooves are susceptible to infection.
In experimental conditions, both cats and ferrets can transmit infection to other animals of the same species.
However, there is no evidence that these animals can transmit the disease to humans and spread COVID-19.
COVID-19 propagates primarily through droplets that expel an infected person by coughing, sneezing, or speaking.
The virus has also been detected in farm-reared mints that had probably been infected by workers.
In some cases, human-infected minnows have transmitted the virus to other people.
These are the first reported cases of animal to human transmission.
It continues to be recommended that people with COVID-19 disease and people at risk limit contact with pet animals and other animals.
In the handling and care of animals, basic hygiene measures should always be taken, namely: washing your hands after handling animals, their food or their items, as well as avoiding kissing them, letting them feed us or sharing food.
Wuhan is the target