More than 2,000 infected in Florida, where the governor doesn't want quarantine
On Thursday, the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) announced that it would increase the number of people affected by COVID-19 in the United States, and that it would increase the number of people affected by COVID-19 in the United States.
According to the latest updated figures provided by the Florida Department of Health, the number of confirmed cases stands at 2,355.
A total of 23,723 tests have been carried out, of which 1,581 results are missing..............
Despite the governor's refusal to follow the steps of California, New York, Illinois, Oregon, Washington, New Jersey, Connecticut, Louisiana, Delaware, and Ohio, some local authorities have already begun to implement initiatives to isolate the population.
In the city of Miami, where there is an order to stay at home since Wednesday, although you are authorized to go out to buy food and other essential products and exercise without a time limit, there will be a "curfew" from Vienna.
Miami, where it is forbidden to leave from 10: 00 p.m. to 5: 00 a.m., is not the only city in southern Florida that has imposed a curfew.
People who have to work or walk their pets can skip the curfew but will have to maintain a safe distance at all times.
This type of measure has been added to others such as the "Safer at Home" emergency order imposed by Miami-Dade County Mayor Carlos Giménez.
Southern Florida remains the most affected region in the state, with Broward and Miami-Dade counties being the largest outbreaks, with 504 and 616 cases, respectively.
Rising unemployment is one of the main reasons why the governor has not ordered a state-level quarantine.
Demands for unemployment benefits have increased "exponentially" in the last week, according to data published by the United States Department of Labor this Thursday.
In Florida, applications increased in the last week from 6,463 to 74,021, a situation that has been repeated across the country and that was "expected."
"This large increase in unemployment claims was to be expected, and is the result of the recognition by Americans across the country that we have had to temporarily stop certain activities to defeat the coronavirus," Labor Secretary Eugene Scalia said in a statement.