Masquerades, yes or no?
Experts and Europe ask to use them, but the government has not yet clarified how
There are press reports and speeches from the government.
Our language is so extensive that it is possible to say and not to say at the same time, This subject is as diaphane as the light of the sun, THERE ARE NOT enough masks for everyone (47 million inhabitants and 8 / 10 masks at least for each to use them in the first month total 470 million), they explain to us how to wash them and try to justify it with arguments of all kinds.
It seems to me to be a sterile debate if there are no reasons such as the lack or scarcity that has been demonstrated since the beginning of the covid session and that for some reason in the month we have been taking it has not been widespread and of the good, knowing how we know that today anything is designed and manufactured in days.
Whether it was the bad, the good, the very good, or the excellent and the material that was, the government should, as it has done with other issues and activities, in case of field hospitals, have put the machine and companies to make masquerades to every rag.
For a simple reason.
The Protection Principle.
There were none.
When it rains, the umbrella is not mandatory, but we use it to keep from getting wet.
Why hasn't it been done?
Or we go back to normal and that's how it goes.
What do they make!!!!
I think so.
The best of the news dsd q the virus arrived in Spain: the government approves SPECIFICATION UNE 0064-1: 2020 Unreusable sanitary masks.
Materials requirements, design, manufacture, marking and use.
Part 1: For use in adults to generalize their use WE ARE ENHORABUEN
The mask, if it is a handkerchief and glasses and gloves, I understand that the WHO and governments were cautious because there were no masks for everyone, I think the first thing was to ensure that health personnel had them and to ensure that hoarding was avoided, by advising everyone to do their own, which is not difficult.
The best usually coincides with the right... they should recognize their mistake, they were wrong and point... you have to put on a mask.
All this stuff that you're riding around the wheel always sucks...
: I'm sorry I skipped my quarantine but I couldn't help it... I return to my monastic silence
Before the Government should clarify what.
Because there's still no masks.
I wonder who makes our paper, whether it's toilet, kitchen or the sheets for the printer.
Because making masks doesn 't have much more science.
Or, well, who makes the ladies' bras (which, in case of trouble, can take two masks from an old man: he already wears the rubber put on) that seem more complicated than a mask, at least those that don't carry a valve.
Does it happen as with almost everything else, that the role of Spain is limited to putting a label with the name of the importer but, if you look carefully for one, in the end you find that that is manufactured... in China?
Until very recently, the WHO only recommended them for infected people and professionals who treated them.
It would try to limit the spread of Flügge droplets expelled by the contaminated ones by sneezing, coughing or simply speaking.
And it is that the more restrictive masks (FFP3) that must filter up to 99% of particles up to 0.6 µm (0.006 mm) would let through the Covid-19 with a diameter of 0.000130 mm.
The WHO or governments cannot therefore be blamed for following their dictates, as it was postulated that they would be Flügge droplets, which would be deposited in the hands or on the surfaces and objects around them, the main transmission agents, and the masks, in no case could catch a virus, which is orders of magnitude smaller than its effective range.
However, in the air we breathe there is a huge amount of pollutants in suspension of much larger sizes than viruses, and it would be almost impossible for viruses like Covid-19 not to be deposited in them, whose latency would be due to particle type, temperature and relative humidity, and whose contagion effectiveness would be greater the larger the particle, since larger particles would deposit more viral charge.
Thus, masks that in theory could not be used to protect against a virus that would easily penetrate them by their size, would be shown USE to catch a viral load, which is actually transported by polluting particles that if they were to trap and neutralize the masks.
Three conclusions could be drawn from this: 1.- it would not be true that 3 metres is a safety distance, 2.- that even handmade clothing masks could be effective, and 3.- it would be convenient to discard or disinfect them (for example) frequently, because they could accumulate a dangerous viral load.
Deny comment
Hide 4 Answers
CAMBRIS
09 / 04 / 20 12: 07
WHO continues to say q only for infected people and those who care for them.
At least until yesterday, although they logically reduce the Ro, reproductive number.
That Ro looks like q is equal to 3: each infected person infects three others.
Generalizing the use of mascara logically decreases the reproductive number.
And this decreases demand for health services Respond Denial comment Hide 3 Answers 1 2
Macron
09 / 04 / 20 13: 41
Unfortunately experts in the various branches of health seem to know little about air physics. I am a specialist physicist and I know that it would be virtually impossible for the droplets of Flügge expelled - for example when speaking to a patient (even asymptomatic) - not to be deposited in the millions of particles that populate the air we breathe.
It would fit perfectly with the thesis that I am maintaining that it would be the suspended particles in the air, which would carry COVID-19, active agents of its transmission.
Reply Deny comment Hide 2 Answers 0 2
CAMBRIS
09 / 04 / 20 14: 51
I agree.
And if Flugge 's droplets stay in the air and the supermarket' s tail is unmasked, what happens?
What comes behind, if not wearing a mask... will be another contagion Reply Denial comment Hide 1 Answers 0 0
Macron
09 / 04 / 20 16: 28
Unfortunately, things are not that simple.
They should be used, because in all probability they reduce the number of infections, but since there would be coronaviruses that would escape, in closed environments and after a few hours from effective disinfection, they would continue to produce - albeit in smaller numbers - infectives.And there are the numbers of highly protected professionals (hair, glasses, masks and body) that are still infected.
As a physicist, I must stick to the facts, although unfortunately I see very little rigour surrounding the debate on the usefulness (which, I insist, is obvious) of masquerades. In the absence of immunity or vaccine, the only really effective strategy is confinement.
Reply Deny comment 0 2
The anxiety of confinement and the need to say something.
It is still until April 25 to define whether or not we wear masks.
There was yesterday in my pharmacy.
Surgery at 1.50.
Is it that urgent to define it?
The experts tell us that the man is contagious through the mouth, the nose, and in turn we see Asians, covered in masks, white and in bottles, another thing is that there is not for EVERYONE, and that logically the priorities are the PROFESSIONALS.
But today for today, we can all make a home mask, which also works for as little as we should SALIR. In short, we should put on masks, to avoid contagion, forgive me for the example, but how the condom in its day to avoid...
What would be worse?
To be mistaken for generalizing the use of masquerades or to be mistaken for not generalizing it?