Vitamin D and melanin are key factors in preventing Covid-19
Vitamin D and melanin key to Covid-19 prevention (Wentao Li - Freepik)
The benefits of vitamin D in the fight against coronavirus continue to become increasingly evident as research continues to advance, in order to find answers and cures that can stem the pandemic in which the world is currently engulfed.
A link between vitamin D and melanin could be a key part in the fight against covid-19 or at least in the search for its prevention, as a new research recently published in BioMed Central suggests.
The study concluded that, with respect to viral attack, the body works better with vitamin D treatments, and that the production of this fat-soluble vitamin might be influenced by melanin.
After much research, researchers believe that this connection may have a good impact on covid-19.
Melanin, the natural pigment that we all have in the body and that is responsible for skin and hair color, as well as a useful polymer classified as a natural product that has numerous potential applications in the industry based on biological resources including plants, microbes, animal cells and semi-synthetic mixtures; it is able to regulate, in certain situations, the production of vitamin D as dictated by the study.
Vitamin D and melanin capable of preventing Covid-19 infections
Some studies have indicated that lower amounts of vitamin D correlate not only with increased susceptibility to acute infections, but also with chronic infections (such as HIV infection) in some cases.
Taking vitamin D supplements can improve the response to treatment of diseases caused by viruses or bacteria, such as chronic hepatitis C or pulmonary tuberculosis.
This is why it is so important to consume foods that provide the body with vitamin D or supplements, as a help in improving the treatment of these diseases.
Within the conclusions of this study, much emphasis is placed on the fact that vitamin D - 1.25 (OH) 2D - has numerous properties that strengthen the immune system, resulting in a decrease in the risk of respiratory infections caused by viruses.
In this way, the joint action of vitamin D could be used to prevent and treat Covid-19.
It is true that there is not much scientific evidence to date, however, researchers who sign the study have concluded that the relationship between melanin and vitamin D may be able to prevent the disease after the activation of furin protease.
Proteases are enzymes that break down proteins, located on the surface of host cells and responsible for processing viral entry may be inhibited.
In any case, the study emphasizes, as a conclusion, that further research is needed to help determine the positive impact on the management of covid-19, as the dose of vitamin D supplement along with the antiviral or antibacterial drug is not well defined.
Researchers are convinced that vitamin D and melanin will become key to stopping covid.