Three California Churches Sue Governor Newsom for Banning Singing Inside Praise Sites
CALIFORNIA (BP) - In California, three evangelical churches have sued Governor Newsom for banning singing and raising choruses in places of praise, but allowing such activities elsewhere.
The July 13 order, which closed churches in at least 30 counties, allows places of worship, as well as gyms, hotels, and shopping centers in Mendocino and Butte counties, to remain open or active.
"Singing and raising choruses, however, is only prohibited in places of praise," says a 20-page complaint filed Wednesday (July 15th) in a federal district court by the American Center for Law and Justice and two other legal groups.
The churches Calvary Chapel Ukiah, Calvary Chapel Fort Braggs, and River of Life Church in Oroville asked the court to arrest state and county officials when they wished to enforce orders to ban singing in praise houses.
"Prohibiting singing in California's churches is an unconstitutional abuse of power," said Jordan Sekulow, executive director of CALJ, in an announcement about the lawsuit.
The state guidelines for praise houses presented in early July point to an increased risk of transmission of COVID-19 in a congregational environment where several family groups meet.
"In particular, activities such as singing songs and choruses deny the risk reduction achieved through the six-foot social estrangement," says the 14-page document.
Places of praise should therefore cease singing or dancing activities when inside a building and limit attendance to 25% of the building's capacity or a maximum quota of 100 attendees, whichever is the option with fewer attendees.
Terry Barone, leader of the communications team for the Southern Baptist Convention in California (CSBC), said that many CBSC churches will again suspend praise services in person and resume Internet services as a result of the July 13 directive.
But among those who continue to meet in person, Barone believes that in some they are going to sing.
"Baptists are an independent group," he said.
Most churches will decide what conviction you have, whether you will sing or not and how you will do it.
That will be the pattern to follow for most of our churches across the country.
It will be based on a Biblical conviction of what they are doing. "
Barone acknowledged that singing could carry a greater risk than other activities, but said it appeared that churches had been treated differently from other establishments.
"There seems to be a disparity in asking a group of the population, particularly the churches, not to do certain things when the same does not apply to other parts of the civilian population," he said.
Ali Bay, a spokesperson for the Office of Emergency Services, said the California Department of Public Health (DSPC) standard is mandatory, reports The Associated Press.
"It has the same authority as all other DSPC rules, directives and orders that the governor has ordered residents to abide by," Bay said.
They say it violates their freedom to practice a religion, which is guaranteed by the First Amendment, and forces them to face "unresolved conflict" by having to choose between following their "true religious beliefs" or obeying the state's mandate.
They also say that the rules violate the First Amendment's establishment clause by allowing only certain religious activities, including religious activities at home.
Her lawsuit, which also calls the state's action a violation of freedom of expression rights, noted that she considers it inconsistent with Newsom's support for protests against police brutality.
"Around July 2, 2020, after the implementation of the ban on praise, when asked to explain whether people should follow Newsom's rule and avoid large group meetings, Newsom refused to put the same restrictions on protesters and explained 'we have a constitution, we have freedom of speech,'" the demand says, citing a recent interview.
Citing verses from the Book of Psalms and the Book of Ephesians in the New Testament, which speaks of "psalms, hymns and spiritual songs," churches say in the demand that congregational singing is a key element of their praise.
"Singing and praying aloud as the body of Christ are an integral part of praise for believers," they say.
Prohibiting group singing or singing is effectively prohibiting collective Christian praise.