The false claims of the viral image that he wants you not to wear a mask
You have asked us a lot about an image of a surgical mask with several messages.
The main thing is that using it makes you breathe your own carbon dioxide.
It's a hoax.
You don't breathe your own CO2 or "your own waste."
The masks are not watertight: air enters through the sides and the top and with that air oxygen enters and carbon dioxide is removed, explains a
Maria Elisa Calle, expert in Epidemiology and Public Health and professor of the Faculty of Medicine of the Complutense University of Madrid.
In addition, the tissues used let gas pass and oxygen is a gas.
We breathe oxygen mixed with nitrogen and exhale CO
2.
, which is also a gas.
If it were true, the surgeons who intervened for several hours would be dead and not just tired, "Calle says.
All of this is explained in our article on why there is no evidence that the mask causes hypoxia.
Does not produce hypercapnia syndrome
The image also states that the mask produces an increase in the concentration of carbon dioxide in the blood (hypercapnia).
But it's false.
"There is no study to show (not even a serious study to investigate) that the surgical mask causes hypercapnia or hypoxia," she explains.
Victor Jiménez Cid, professor of Microbiology at the Complutense University of Madrid and member of the Spanish Society of Microbiology.
Neither prevents lung oxygenation nor prevents proper breathing
Again, it is again pointed out that the mask does not allow gas exchange but we have already explained that the mask filters the particles, not the gases.
In addition, Dr Raquel Blasco states that
that these claims are false
I'm sorry.
as we explain in this article about lies and claims without scientific evidence about the mask.
Not poisoned by microparticles of material
Nor are we intoxicated with microparticles, which do not come off the mask, explains María Elisa Calle.
Does it produce a sense of suffocation?
The sensation of asphyxiation that the image says only occurs "if the one carrying it is very anxious or nervous and cannot breathe comfortably.
"You have to get used to it," Calle explains.
"The only thing that happens with masquerades is they're uncomfortable and we're not used to it," he adds.
The masks that most asphyxiation sensation can cause are FFP2 and FPP3, not surgical ones, which are less watertight.
Masquerades are not for use 24 hours in a row, "they are for going out on the street, shopping or shipping and moving in public transport.
They are not to be taken home or when we are alone, "explains the professor at the Faculty of Medicine of the Complutense University of Madrid.
Subjective assertions such as "symbolizes mutism" or "produces a lack of physical and psychological freedom" that appear in the image are not verifiable by
I'm sorry.
To conclude, an article published in
Wetenschap
on how to reduce the transmission of the coronavirus that causes COVID-19 states that "surgical mask material reduces the probability and severity of COVID-19 by substantially reducing the viral concentration in the air.
Masks also protect uninfected individuals from SARS-CoV-2s aerosols. "
The article concludes that "mascara and testing are needed to combat asymptomatic propagation in aerosols and droplets."
* Updated 28 May with the study of
Wissenschaft.
First publication date of this article: 06 / 08 / 2020