Conconvalescent plasma, rich in antibodies, does not decrease mortality in patients hospitalized with covid-19, according to study
1: 38.
(CNN Español) - Using convalescent plasma as therapy to treat hospitalized patients with coronavirus is a method that has been used since the beginning of the pandemic.
At the time, scientists said that antibodies in this plasma - extracted from people who had survived the disease - helped reduce mortality in serious patients.
However, a study published in BMJ magazine shows that the use of convalescent plasma does not prevent the complication of symptoms in patients with covid-19.
You can listen to this episode on Apple Podcasts, Spotify or your favorite podcast platform, or read the transcript below.
Hi, I'm Dr. Elmer Huerta and this is your daily dose of information about the new coronavirus.
Information that we hope will be useful for your health and that of your family.
Today we will see a study showing that convalescent plasma, rich in antibodies, does not decrease the mortality of patients hospitalized with covid-19.
Fundamentals of convalescent plasma treatment
As described in the April 7 episode, treatment with convalescent plasma is based on the fact that the blood of a person recovering from the disease contains an enormous amount of antibodies specific to the new coronavirus.
Knowing that, the blood of a donor who has passed the disease is processed, separating the solid or cellular part (containing white, red, and platelets) from the liquid or plasma part of the blood.
That plasma, rich in antibodies, is then transfused to the patient in the hope that the convalescent antibodies neutralise the virus that is attacking him.
This type of treatment, also called passive immunization (to differentiate it from active immunization, which is the vaccine), has been used since the 19th century.
The historical use of plasma as a treatment
In 1890, for example, it was used to combat diphtheria.
In 1918, to treat the great flu pandemic.
In the 1940s, for convulsive cough..
In the 1970s, for the treatment of tetanus.
And, in this century, to treat SARS, MERS, H1N1 flu and Ebola.
Unfortunately, as we saw in the August 31 episode, the effectiveness of this type of treatment has not been scientifically proven.
After its emergency use was approved by the FDA in April, convalescent plasma began to be widely used by physicians in many parts of the world.
In the United States, for example, a network of 2,700 hospitals was formed to administer it, creating the perception among patients and family members that plasma was the most effective treatment to cure the disease, and thus refusing to participate in clinical studies to test whether it actually worked or not.
In other words, the massive use of a scientifically untested treatment caused a counter-productive effect: it made scientific evaluation difficult.
To prove that plasma treatment really works, it is necessary to do studies in which half the patients are given plasma and the other half, a placebo.
But understandably, when patients were convinced that the plasma was effective, it was difficult to convince them to participate in a study that would draw them out for a placebo.
What do scientists say?
Now, an article published in the medical journal BMJ describes a study done in India, in which a group of 464 adults with moderate covid-19 were randomly drawn from 39 hospitals to receive plasma or to continue standard medical care, without plasma.
In total, 235 patients received convalescent plasma along with standard care for treatment and 229 patients received only standard care.
In relation to the symptoms of the disease, the results showed that, although a higher proportion of patients receiving convalescent plasma improved their symptoms of fatigue and shortness of breath, there was no difference in the relief of fever and cough.
On the other hand - and these were the most important results expected - neither the proportion of patients who worsened nor the proportion of patients who died was lower in the group that used convalescent plasma.
In other words, convalescent plasma did not prevent patients from getting intensive care or save their lives.
Results of the study
In this regard, 44 patients or 19% of participants in the plasma receiving group and 41 or 18% of patients who did not receive the plasma degenerated into a more serious disease or died for some reason within 28 days of starting treatment.
The authors conclude that their study can be generalized to many other countries that have approved convalescent plasma without a scientific basis for doing so, especially in middle-income or low-income countries that do not have all the safety measures required for this type of treatment.
Transfusion of prepared plasma under unsanitary conditions or without proper virus or bacterial control can cause more harm than benefit in patients affected by covid-19.
Other experts are more cautious and ask for more studies and selection of participants before abandoning this type of treatment.
Do you have any questions about coronavirus?
Send me your questions via Twitter, we will try to answer them in our next episodes.
You can find me at @DrHuerta.
If you think this podcast is useful, help others find it, rating it and reviewing it in your favorite podcast application.
We'll be back tomorrow, so make sure you subscribe to get the last episode on your account.
And for more up-to-date information, you can to CNNEspanol.com.
Thank you for your attention.
If you have any questions you can send them to Dr. Elmer Huerta via Twitter.
You can also contact CNNE.com / coronavirusPodcast for all episodes of our podcast "Coronavirus: Reality vs.
Fiction. "