Use of NSAIDs in patients with COVID-19: Questions and Answers with Bryan D. Hayes, Pharmacist
In this article
Several important health authorities have analyzed the use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), such as ibuprofen, for patients with COVID-19
Bryan D. Hayes, pharmacist, DABAT, FAACT, FASHP, says NSAIDs can be used in these patients according to standard health considerations.
While acetaminophen and NSAIDs can be considered for patients with COVID-19, the health recommendations surrounding the virus may change as ongoing research progresses
On 17 March, French Health Minister Olivier Verán tweeted that taking non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), such as ibuprofen, could worsen the clinical course of patients infected with COVID-19.
Clinicians and researchers are still studying COVID-19 and determining treatment options.
Bryan D. Hayes, PharmD, DABAT, FAACT, FAHP, senior pharmacist in Emergency Medicine and Toxicology at Massachusetts General Hospital, clarifies the risks and benefits of drugs such as ibuprofen for use in patients with COVID-19.
Q: Is there currently evidence to support the French Minister of Health's claim?
Hayes: This was based, at least in part, on a recent article in The Lancet that hypothesized that NSAIDs could increase, or raise, the angiotensin 2 converting enzyme (ECA2).
We know that coronaviruses that cause severe acute respiratory syndrome, such as SARS-CoV and SARS-CoV2 (i.e. COVID-19) bind to their target via ECA2.
ECA2 is present in epithelial cells throughout the body, including the lungs.
It is important to note that the article in The
Lancet.
It was a correspondence, not a research study.
And it was specifically targeted at patients with diabetes and hypertension, both conditions in which there is an increase in ECA2 expression.
On March 18, the World Health Organization (WHO) tweeted, as a double denial, that they "do not recommend against the use of ibuprofen."
The European Medicines Agency, equivalent to the U.S. FDA, issued a statement the same day stating: "There is currently no scientific evidence linking ibuprofen to the worsening of COVID-19."
At the time of writing this article, ibuprofen and other NSAIDs may be used in patients with COVID-19.
However, some hospitals, including Mass General, are being extremely cautious and recommend that front-line providers evaluate and document recent use of NSAIDs and avoid prescribing NSAIDs while patients are hospitalized.
P: This type of medication is better regulated in France than in the United States.
If symptoms (fever, cough) occur, is there any risk when taking medications such as ibuprofen, etc.?
Hayes: The risks of taking ibuprofen are the same in patients with COVID-19 as they do not.
NSAIDs come with written warnings related to severe cardiovascular thrombotic events and gastrointestinal bleeding, ulcerations and perforations.
Patient factors that affect cardiovascular risk include the presence of previous cardiovascular diseases, history of systemic inflammatory disorders, old age, male, high blood pressure, hyperlipidemia, diabetes, and smoking.
Factors of NSAIDs that affect cardiovascular risk include duration, frequency, dose of therapy and perhaps degree of selectivity for cyclooxygenase (COX) -2 inhibition relative to COX-1.
In the case of gastrointestinal bleeding, risk factors include the history of gastric ulcer / bleeding; age over 60; high doses of NSAIDs; simultaneous use of glucocorticoids, anti-platelet agents, anticoagulants, and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs).
The conclusion is that, for any condition, NSAIDs should be taken at the lowest effective dose and for the shortest possible time for the given indication.
Naproxen or ibuprofen may be the best oral options.
In patients with major cardiovascular diseases, alternatives to NSAIDs should be considered.
Q: Do we have a specific recommendation for medical professionals who see patients who show symptoms?
Is acetaminophen really the best option?
Hayes: At this time, both acetaminophen (also known as paracetamol in other parts of the world) and NSAIDs, such as ibuprofen, can be considered for patients who show symptoms of COVID-19.
Because they work through different mechanisms, both can be taken together or alternately.
Q: Is there anything else that health care providers would like to know when considering what to prescribe to patients who may have contracted COVID-19?
Hayes: Remember that the dose of acetaminophen should not exceed 4,000 mg in a 24-hour period, even if it comes from other sources such as hydrocodone / acetaminophen.
Another point to consider is that this information may change as the research progresses.