Masquerades, were they necessary or not?
Health officials' discourse about whether or not to wear a mask has changed over time, depending on its availability and the plague of the virus.
The majority use of the mask in the center of Bilbao.
Yvonne Itaig
Health authorities were tired of repeating that the use of masks was not necessary, especially at the beginning of the crisis, when their supply was not assured even for health personnel.
The discourse has changed over time, especially in the last few weeks, when once confinement has been completed, hand washing has been shown to be insufficient and the safety distance, necessary but difficult to fulfill.
26 February.
The director of the Center for Health Alerts and Emergencies, Fernando Simón, states that "its use can only be interesting if there is symptomatic."
The measures that are going to protect us from this virus are the basic hygiene measures.
The masks are not necessary, if they were, we would say so. "
29 February.
Minister of Health, Salvador Illa.
Masquerades serve, but are not necessary in Spain to go by the street.
In some risk areas, such as Italy or China, they have been recommended.
In Spain, we don't have that situation. "
March 2020.
Health adviser of the Basque Government, Nekane Murga: "Masquerades don't work," he assured before the collection of these items in the pharmacies.
Its use does not prevent catching the infection.
What it prevents is washing hands and not touching surfaces in very frequented places, "he added two days later.
5 April.
Nekane Murga, in an interview with THE CORREO:
- Do you wear a mask every day?
- No, no.
- Pedro Sanchez already does.
- She'll have a coronavirus.
- What's your recommendation?
The government is already considering advising the population.
- My recommendation is that people who have respiratory symptoms or are more vulnerable use it.
The general population would be told that hand washing more prevents infection.
- Does it affect your answer that there are no masquerades for everyone?
- I think sometimes masquerades can give a sense of security that isn't real.
We need to be clear that what leads to infection is the hands.
4 April.
Minister of Health, Salvador Illa, on a possible official recommendation of the use of masks to go out in the street.
The Government is discussing the possibility of proposing this measure, but I do not want to anticipate anything until we have decided and can communicate it.
4 April.
Director of Planning and Health Evaluation, Basque Government, Mikel Sánchez.
The use of universal masks in the community is also discouraged on the grounds that masks do not provide effective protection against coronavirus infection.
7 April.
The President, Inigo Urkulu.
The World Health Organization (WHO) reiterated (yesterday) that it does not recommend its mass use.
Euskadi is guided by these criteria. "
14 April.
Minister of Health of the Basque Government, Nekane Murga.
The mask, if not accompanied by these other hygienic attitudes (in reference to hand washing and safety distance), by itself neither prevents transmission nor isolates us from possible contagions.
8 July.
The President, Inigo Urkulu.
We will continue to insist on its use and we are analysing whether we need to focus on a communication campaign, not only of recommendation in case of not keeping distance, but of recommendation of the use of the mask in any case.
15 July.
Health Advisor, Nekane Murga.
Masque use will be compulsory in Euskadi from tomorrow.
Even in beaches and swimming pools. "