Emergency use authorization of the drug Bamlanivimab for COVID-19
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has issued an emergency use authorization (US) for bamlanivimab in the treatment of COVID-19.
Bamlanivimab is a monoclonal antibody consisting of 2 identical light-chain polypeptides and directed specifically against the SARS-CoV-2 peak protein, which is designed to block the virus's binding and entry into human cells.
Monoclonal antibodies are immune system proteins that are created in the laboratory.
Bamlanivimab is authorised for the treatment of Covid-19 from mild to moderate, in adult and pediatric patients with positive results from direct viral tests of SARS-CoV-2, who are 12 years of age or older and weigh at least 40 kg, with a high risk of progression to severe COVID-19 and / or hospitalization (with at least one of the following criteria: BMI ≥ 35, chronic disease, diabetes, an immunosuppressive kidney disease, receiving immunosuppressive treatment, ≥ 65, ≥ 55 years of cardiovascular disease, hypertension or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, among others).
The US issued to bamlanivimab is based on a Phase 2 trial.
The most important evidence that bamlanivimab can be effective comes from reduced hospitalizations or visits to the emergency room by COVID-19 within 28 days of treatment.
For patients at high risk of disease progression, hospitalizations and emergency room visits averaged 3% with bamlanivimab compared to 10% with placebo.
The US allows bamlanivimab to be distributed and administered as a single dose intravenously.
Adverse reactions related to the infusion of bamlanivimab may include: fever, chills, nausea, headache, bronchospasm, hypotension, angioedema, throat irritation, rash including urticaria, pruritus, myalgia and dizziness.
Bamlanivimab is not authorized for patients hospitalized or requiring oxygen therapy due to COVID-19; unlike the antiviral remdesivir (the first FDA-approved treatment for COVID-19), it is authorized for the treatment of COVID-19 in adults and pediatric patients requiring hospitalization.