The Controversial ivermectin
Last year, some researchers claimed that the drug was able to prevent SARS-CoV-2 from replicating in cell cultures.
However, its use as an effective treatment is still in doubt.
The search for a way out of the Covid 19 pandemic, which has disrupted the entire world, is becoming increasingly urgent.
Many consider the solution to be mass vaccination of the population.
Others have opted for drugs, including ivermectin.
Some even consider it a miracle cure, especially because it is cheap and easy to get without a prescription in Latin America.
It is used to treat parasitic diseases in animals and humans.
Its effects are based on modifications of chloride channels, leading to paralysis and death of, for example, scabies and silk worms.
In mid-last year, Australian researchers reported in the journal Antiviral Research that ivermectin reduced the viral load of SARS-CoV-2 in a preclinical study in vitro, that is, in laboratory conditions.
The Pan American Health Organization (PAHO) noted that such efficacy in laboratory cultures was not sufficient to ensure clinical benefits.
Despite this and according to the site www.dw.com, in Peru ivermectin was widely used to treat the early stages of Covid 19.
However, last October, the country's government removed hydroxychloroquine and ivermectin from its treatment guide.
The World Health Organization (WHO) and the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) discourage the use of ivermectin for the treatment of Covid 19 and warn of its side effects.
In Mexico, meanwhile, specialists have expressed their rejection of the use of ivermectin as a treatment against Covid 19, even though the Mexican Institute of Social Security (IMSS) has already prescribed it to patients suffering from the disease.
However, last January 23, the Mexican government established that "ivermectin is safe and effective in treating adults with Covid 19 with mild symptoms."
A very contradictory picture.
According to the publication www.infobae.com, in Mexico City it was decided to incorporate it to treat patients with Covid 19, as "it has no patent, is cheap and is of high clinical safety, as it does not produce side effects in the recommended doses."
That is, like vaccines, the use of ivermectin was approved "under a health emergency logic."
Divided Scientists
In an article published by CNN Español, while there is no solid scientific basis to say that ivermectin is effective against Covid 19, there is not enough evidence, so far, to say that it does not work to treat or prevent the disease.
Health authorities in Venezuela, Mexico, Honduras, Nicaragua, Guatemala, El Salvador, Peru and Bolivia recommend the use of ivermectin for covid-19 patients within care protocols, and also some in a preventive manner.
The U.S. National Institutes of Health recently stated that there is not enough data to establish whether ivermectin helps against Covid 19.
I mean, it doesn't say it works or not, but it hasn't been tested yet.
This marked a change from not recommending it to taking a more neutral stance.
Convalent plasma therapy for Covid 19 patients was also marked in this category. "
Based on this more neutral position, the argument of some doctors is to reject it.
However, the government of Ecuador has warned that ivermectin should not be used as a treatment for Covid 19.
In Peru it is used for ambulatory patients at risk of complications, but the Ministry of Health does not recommend it as a general treatment.
It is also not recommended in Colombia, Argentina and the Dominican Republic, among other countries.
Like all medicines, ivermectin can have adverse effects if the recommended doses are exceeded.
The most severe are neurotoxicity, gastrointestinal problems, poisoning allergies and urticaria, among others.
Vomiting, severe diarrhea, muscle pain, fatigue and headache may also be present.
Currently, more than 100 studies are underway to demonstrate whether ivermectin could become useful as a treatment for Covid 19.