Madonna censored for sharing the same coronavirus conspiracy as a homophobic doctor
Madonna has been branded for spreading "false information" on Instagram after sharing the same video of the coronavirus conspiracy that led to the suspension of Donald Trump Jr.
Twitter.
The Queen of Pop shared a video of controversial anti-LGBT + doctor Stella Immanuel, whom she described as her "hero."
Immanuel believes, among many other extravagant ideas, that people get sick from having sex with demons who talk about coronavirus.
The video showed Emmanuel supporting Trump's unfounded claim that hydroxychloroquine should be used to treat coronavirus.
Authorities have warned that the drug has dangerous side effects and is not an effective treatment for COVID-19.
Brahim Zaibat, Madonna's boyfriend, wears the same clothes as Britney Spears in a session for 'Vman'
The truth will set us free!
But some people don't want to hear the truth, "Madonna wrote in her photo, also stating that authorities were hiding the cure for coronavirus.
The post appeared blurry with a warning of "false information" in the video.
The Instagram text continued: "Reviewed by independent fact checkers."
When users clicked more, they were shown a list of falsehoods in Madonna's post.
Fact checkers note that there is still no cure for COVID-19 and that the hydroxychloroquine drug is not a cure, as Immanuel claims.
Unfortunately, this is not the first strange announcement of coronavirus we have seen from the star: earlier this year she delivered a surreal monologue about the pandemic being a "great equalizer" while sitting in a bubble bath strewn with pink petals.
His leaked sermon remained on Instagram despite criticism, but his last post appears to have been removed altogether.
The social media platform began marking content for inaccuracy late last year as part of the social application's commitment to "reduce the spread of false information."
Twitter has begun to do the same, and yesterday the president's son was suspended for posting a tweet declaring that Stella Immanuel's video was a "must watch."
The video was retweeted by the president himself and was also driven by a number of right-wing figures.
It has been removed from Twitter and Facebook for violating COVID-19's disinformation policies, but only after it accumulated millions of hits between the two websites.