The false claims of the viral image that surgical masks use products like teflon that cause cancer
You asked our Whatsapp chatbot (+ 34 644 22 93 19) for an image stating that "the disposable surgical masks used by the majority of the population are sterilized with ethylene oxide and made of PTFE (polytetrafluoroethylene, better known as teflon), a carcinogen made from synthetic fluoride."
They are false claims.
There is no evidence that Teflon is carcinogenic
The International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC) classifies PTFE as "unclassifiable," that is, as a substance for which there is insufficient evidence in animals and humans.
In this article we have already explained what it means to "give cancer" and what a carcinogen is.
The image says that Cancer.org, the website of the American Cancer Society, considers PTFE to increase the risk of liver, testes, pancreas, kidney and breast tumors, as well as ulcerative colitis, thyroid diseases, preeclampsia, and high cholesterol.
But that is not the case: "If teflon and other anti-adherent coatings cause cancer by themselves, it has not been the main focus of concern," says Cancer.org.
The risks of surgical masks have been evaluated, although not all are sterilized
The Ministry of Health has explained to
that "not all surgical masks are sterilized.
It is only necessary to have these masks in sterile environments. "
Health claims that "surgical masks are considered a health product and therefore must have an EC mark in order to be marketed within the EU."
To obtain it, "the manufacturer must confirm that the product meets all the requirements of the health product regulation and, if it does, make a declaration of conformity of its product.
This includes an assessment of the safety and associated risks of both the materials they comprise and the materials used for their sterilization. "
The Ministry of Health also notes that the Spanish Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products (AEMPS), "in collaboration with the health authorities of the Autonomous Communities involved in each case, is carrying out market control tasks to ensure that products comply with the legislation and that measures are already being taken to withdraw products that do not comply with it."
First publication date of this article: 12 / 11 / 2020