The drug that reduces mortality to 71% in patients with COVID-19
The drug baricitinib, identified through previous research based on artificial intelligence, for rheumatoid arthritis can block viral entry and reduce mortality in patients with COVID-19 whose condition ranges from moderate to severe, according to a translational research by an international team coordinated by experts from Karolinska Institutet in Sweden and in which researchers from the University Hospital Complex in Albacete have participated.
We are pleased to report a 71% reduction in the mortality of the group that received baricitinib in addition to standard care.
These results are especially encouraging as the study included a large cohort of elderly patients, a group that is often excluded in other trials, "explains Volker Lauschke, author of the work and associate professor of personalized medicine and drug development at the Department of Physiology and Pharmacology of the Karolinska Institute.
In the study, 83 patients hospitalized in Italy and Spain with pneumonia caused by COVID-19 were treated with baricitinib in addition to standard care.
Of these, 17 percent suffered an adverse outcome that resulted in death or invasive mechanical ventilation.
This compares to 35 percent in the matched control group of 83 patients who received only standard care.
Data on baricitinib
Baricitinib is an oral drug taken once a day and used to treat adult patients with moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis.
It acts as an inhibitor of janus kinase, a type of enzyme that acts as an 'on' or 'off' switch in many cell functions.
The drug has a dual function and acts by interfering with the inflammatory processes of the immune system, as well as directly inhibiting viral entry.
It is considered a potential candidate for COVID-19 treatment.
In the research, published in the journal 'Science Advances', scientists cultivated miniature human organs in the laboratory, called organoids, to investigate how exactly the drug can combat COVID-19.
The findings revealed that the drug in question can help work in two ways: reducing the damage to organs caused by inflammation, and blocking the virus's entry into human cells.
"Our findings explain the dual anti-cytokine and anti-viral actions of baricitinib and support additional evaluation in randomized control trials," adds Ali Mirazimi, assistant professor at the Karolinska Institute's Laboratory Medicine Department and co-author of the study.
Drug well tolerated
Patients, who were 81 years of age on average, tolerated the drug well with a reduction in inflammation from the first days of treatment, according to researchers.
Side effects of the previously reported prolonged use of baricitinib, including coagulopathy and thrombosis, were not evident in any of the patients, possibly due to treatment with anticoagulant drugs.