A Peruvian court accuses "criminal elites worldwide" of creating COVID-19
INFORMATION
A Peruvian court stated, in a conspiracy-based ruling, that COVID-19 was an invention of "criminal elites worldwide," according to the magistrates of this court.
The judges' resolution includes a car presented by a defendant who was in pre-trial detention and whose resolution was delayed due to the pandemic that claims that these criminal elites are being treated by multimillionaires such as George Soros, the Rockefeller family and the businessman and co-founder of Microsoft Bill Gates.
As a justification for the delay in issuing a ruling, the Criminal Appeals Chamber of Chincha and Pisco asserted that the pandemic was "unpredictable" except for its creators, "who handled and continue to address it with outrageous secrecy within their global environments and corporations."
Thus, this collegial court of the Superior Court of Justice of Ica that make up the judges Tito Gallegos, Luis Leguía and Tony Changaray tried to excuse the dilation to attend the appeal of a defendant seeking to have his pre-trial detention (provisional) cancelled, but whose request was slowed by the pandemic.
"No global government, natural and legal persons, nor the defense of the defendant can argue that this pandemic has the quality of 'predictable', except the creators of the new world order such as Bill Gates, Soros, Rockefeller, etc.," affirmed the resolution, circulated on the LP Law portal.
Investigation of judges
After passing on to the public the contents of the court's car, the Desconcentrada Oficina de Control de la Magistratura (Odecma) of Ica, located 400 kilometers south of Lima, opened a preliminary investigation to the magistrates who signed the resolution.
The aim of the investigation is to gather the elements that help determine the existence of alleged irregularities committed by the judges.
Asserting that the coronavirus was "created by the criminal elites that dominate the world," Chincha and Pisco's Superior Criminal Appeals Chamber echoed one of the many conspiracy theories that emerged last year in the wake of the pandemic.
With the advent of COVID-19, the amount of disinformation exploded, and although the World Health Organization (WHO) confirmed as early as May that the virus had an animal origin and refuted its creation in a laboratory, alternative origins continued to circulate.
From an early age, these theories were fueled by
(fake news) included speeches about its creation by pharmaceutical companies eager to increase their economic profits, and even conspiracies by Gates or Soros as promoters of a supposed plan to control the population through vaccines and 5G.