Neither bat nor pangolin: this is the animal that the coronavirus could have brought.
An archive image of a Japanese raccoon.
Christian Drosten is director of the Institute of Virology at Charité Hospital in Berlin and was one of the scientists who identified the SARS virus in 2003.
As head of the German Institute of Public Health's coronavirus reference laboratory, he has become the government's leading expert on the virus that has caused the current pandemic.
In an interview with
published this Sunday, Drosten, in addition to admitting that he fears a second deadly wave of the virus, points to an animal, little mentioned by scientists so far, as the possible origin of the global outbreak of COVID-19.
When we talk about where SARS-CoV-2, the new coronavirus, came from, the scientific arguments point to a viral zoonosis originating in a bat that transmitted the virus to another intermediate mammal, probably a pangolin according to the genome of the coronavirus found in these animals, that transmitted it to humans.
This hypothesis follows the origin of other recent coronaviruses that have wreaked havoc on human populations.
We know that in some cases humans acquire the virus directly from an animal: civets in the case of SARS-CoV-1, a species of coronavirus that causes severe acute respiratory syndrome that arose in 2003 in Southeast Asian countries, and camels in the case of Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS), first detected in Saudi Arabia in 2012.
Drosten in this interview reflects on the origin of the new coronavirus.
Asked if we can say for sure that the pandemic started in China, this expert replies that he believes it did.
On the other hand, I do not assume that it started in the food market in Wuhan.
It is more likely that it started where the animal, the intermediate host, was born. "
About this intermediate guest, the English newspaper asks if he is referring to pangolin.
"I see no reason to assume that the virus passed through pangolins on its way to humans," he replies.
There is an interesting article from ancient literature on SARS (in reference to SARS-CoV-1 of 2003).
This virus was found in civets, but also in raccoon dogs (also known as Japanese raccoons), something that the media overlooked, "he notes.
An archive image of a Japanese raccoon.
Mapuche dogs are a massive industry in China, where they are farmed and caught in the wild for their fur.
If someone gave me a few hundred thousand dollars and free access to China to find the source of the virus, I would search the breeding grounds for raccoon dogs, "Drosten says.
In relation to this topic, the expert is asked whether human activities are responsible for the spread of coronaviruses from animals to humans.
Coronaviruses are prone to change hosts when there is opportunity, and we create those opportunities through the unnatural use of animals as livestock.
Cattle are exposed to wildlife, they are kept in large groups that can amplify the virus and humans have intense contact with them, for example through meat consumption, so they certainly represent a possible trajectory of coronaviruses, "he notes.
"Camels count as cattle in the Middle East, and are the host of the MERS virus, as well as the human coronavirus 229E, which is one of the causes of the common cold, while cattle were the original host of the coronavirus OC43, which is another type," Drosten said.