Dissolving cells: eating frozen does not infect Covid-19
Frozen food
The Covid-19 pandemic has humanity on alert and any suspicion of a new focus arouses all sorts of speculation.
And alarms are often unfounded.
As was probably the case a few weeks ago in New Zealand and China, where the presence of new cases after several months without any, created great concern among health authorities.
Frozen shrimp
"In New Zealand in particular, it was a hundred days without any new positive and the hypothesis that the virus had arrived from some other country through imported food was put on the table," explains Miguel Ángel Lurueña, a doctor in Food Science and Technology, and author of the blog
guminolasdepetrol.
For this reason, analyses of frozen foods from other countries were intensified and coronavirus remains were detected in chicken wings from Brazil and shrimp from Ecuador.
That it was only debris and not entire viruses is the key to the matter, according to Lurueña.
The virus, he says, can only infect if it is complete, and in the cases analyzed what was found was RNA (ribonucleic acid) from the inner part, never a complete virus.
Image Description
The virus "occupies" living cells to feed and reproduce
And it puts us in the background to know a little bit more about their behavior.
A virus, he explains, is genetic material without organelles or tools to perform vital functions, such as feeding or reproducing.
And that assumes, he adds, that he always needs to inject his genetic material into a living cell that will work for him and perform those functions in his place. "
Therefore, it cannot reproduce on food, either frozen or unfrozen.
It can happen, you warn, that the food has become contaminated because the person who manipulates it has thrown some virus on it, using tiny drops of saliva when sneezing, coughing or talking.
But if viruses cannot grow or develop on food, because they lack living cells, it is also true that both these and bacteria do not die by freezing them, but they are conserved, although they do not multiply either.
"If a food had ten viruses before freezing it will still have them afterwards," the expert adds.
Frozen fish
Therefore, food, continue, can be a potential source of contamination, but it has not been demonstrated in any case by eating it, but by touching the affected food and taking your hands to your mouth or nose.
And it 's safe to eat them cooked, because viruses don' t survive temperatures above 65 degrees.
Laboratory experiments in Singapore
A number of laboratory experiments have been conducted......
One of the most revealing is the one carried out by scientists from Ireland and Singapore.
They contaminated with viable and infective coronaviruses, frozen and refrigerated pieces of salmon, chicken and pork from a local supermarket in Singapore.
They were then stored in a refrigerator or freezer for 21 days at temperatures of 4, 20 and -80 degrees Celsius, and were sampled periodically.
The researchers found that the viruses remained throughout the study and had the ability to infect both frozen and refrigerated foods.
But only if someone touched them and put their hands on their nose or mouth.
The same would not happen if they were consumed.
Freezer
"Our laboratory has shown that SARS coV-2 can survive the time and temperatures associated with transport manipulation common in international trade," said the authors of the study.
Although no further checks have been made on such work in this case, this does not mean that it was not done with full precision and guarantees: but there is nothing to say that massive infections have occurred by touching frozen food.
However, although it may appear to be a very resistant virus, "it is actually very vulnerable, and proof of this is that it ends with a simple hand washing," Lurueña concludes.
They are also very sensitive to UV rays from the sun and sudden temperature changes.
To test that a dangerous and viable virus persists in a food or its envelope, researchers should isolate the microbe in a laboratory and demonstrate that it is capable of replicating.
They are complicated experiments and do not currently enter the performance protocols.
Frozen Broccoli
It is seen that this form of contagion is very unlikely, and the only one that has been proven so far is that of person to person and through breath.
Three hours on a paper, three days on a plastic.........
In short, it is trying to convey to consumers that there is no need to be afraid of getting sick that way.
The Chinese authorities have analysed several hundred thousand samples and fewer than ten have been positive.
That 's because even if you' re there, on the long journey from one place to another, you end up desiccating and losing your infectious power.
It may remain on certain surfaces for a long time, but with little chance of infection.
The life of the virus also depends on the material on which it is placed.
Ford turns plastic bottles into car carpets
According to various studies, it remains for about three hours in tissues and paper; one day on a cardboard and three on plastic or stainless steel.
Although not the most common form of transmission, it is still advisable to keep the surfaces clean and disinfected.
What is clear is that if the virus were to spread effectively through products that travel from one country to another, we would be talking about exponentially higher numbers of infected people than today.
However, the best protection is to follow the established hygiene measures and, among other things, to avoid touching the skin after taking supermarket products, whether frozen or not.
frozen
The relationship between food handling and contagion has also been established by the many cases that have occurred in such companies.
But experts do not believe that it can be related to the food itself, but to the working conditions in these centers, and that it is often found in communities where exposure to the virus is already quite high.
So the possibility of these workers getting infected and passing the virus on to food products exists.
And also the odds that it will end up on the other end of the world...............
Another thing is that it 's in optimal conditions for infection......