Coronavirus: How does alcohol work against Covid-19?
In recent weeks, the World Health Organization and various experts have implemented various cleaning protocols such as hand washing and the use of antibacterial soaps and gels, which have served citizens as a measure against the coronavirus pandemic.
Is alcohol effective against Covid-19?
One of the elements most used by people, which is even depleted and in high demand in shops and supermarkets, is antiseptic alcohol, a substance that can only be used for external use and that slows growth and destroys microorganisms on living tissue, so it is considered an element of rapid disinfectant action.
For this reason, the use of this liquid is recommended for the disinfection of different surfaces or everyday items such as shoes, cell phones or glasses as according to the World Health Organization its application directly to the body of patients exposed or infected by Coronavirus is not effective.
Roasting the whole body with alcohol or chlorine does not kill viruses that have already entered the body.
Pulvering these substances can damage clothing and mucous membranes (i.e. eyes, mouth, etc.).
Both alcohol and chlorine can be used to disinfect surfaces, provided that the relevant recommendations are followed, "is part of the WHO recommendation.
For this health body it is more effective than people often wash their hands with water and soap, although they highlight the importance of alcohol for surface disinfection as it is one of the easiest to apply and most effective in combating the virus spread on surfaces.
Recommendations for antibacterial drugs with alcohol
Antibacterial agents are one of the most widely used elements in this pandemic.
Most of them are based on alcohol, so many people believe that among the more it contains this higher substance will be its protection.
In a statement to Apartment Therapy, Elizabeth Scott, a professor of microbiology at Simmons University in Boston, said that disinfectants that have a higher percentage are more concentrated, meaning they do not have as much water as those that have 70% alcohol.
This means that antibacterial liquids containing 70% alcohol are more effective than those containing 91% alcohol because the latter is too powerful, so it destroys the outside of the cell before it can enter it and kill the germ.
All against Coronavirus
Following these recommendations we prevent the spread of Coronavirus (COVID-19) in our country: 1.
Wash your hands often, 2.
Do not greet people with kisses or handshakes, 3.
If you cough, cover your mouth with your elbow flexed or with a disposable handkerchief, 4.
Avoid touching your eyes, nose and mouth, 5.
If you have a fever or difficulty breathing, seek medical attention, but call line 123, 6 first.
Follow the directions of local and national authorities.
And remember, stay home!