Immunity against Covid-19 would last a lifetime.
Immunity against Covid-19 would last a lifetime.
One study suggests that immunity to Covid-19 could last even a lifetime.
They show that the virus that causes Covid-19, SARS-CoV-2, induces memory B cells, long-lived immune cells that detect pathogens, creating antibodies to destroy them and remembering them for the future.
immunity against covid-19 would last a lifetime.
Seasonal colds are not fun, but new research suggests that colds that have been overcome in the past may provide some protection against Covid-19.
The study, whose author is an infectious disease expert at the University of Rochester Medical Center (USA), also suggests that Covid-19 immunity is likely to last a long time, even a lifetime.
The study, published in mBio magazine, was the first to show that the Covid-19 causative virus, SARS-CoV-2, induces memory B cells, long-lived immune cells that detect pathogens, were not antibodies to destroy them and remember them for the future.
The next time the pathogen tries to enter the body, those memory B cells can go into action even faster to eliminate the infection before it starts.
Since memory B cells can survive for decades, they could protect Covid-19 survivors from later infections for a long time, but subsequent research will have to confirm this.
immunity against covid-19 would last a lifetime.
The study is also the first to report cross-reactivity of memory B cells, meaning that B cells that once attacked cold-causing coronaviruses appeared to recognize SARS-CoV-2 as well.
The authors of the study believe that this could mean that anyone who has been infected with a common coronavirus - which is almost worldwide - could have some pre-existing degree of immunity to Covid-19.
When we looked at the blood samples from the people who were recovering from Covid-19, it seemed that many of them had a pre-existing set of memory B cells that could recognize SARS-CoV-2 and quickly produce antibodies that could attack it.
, explains the main author of the study, Mark Sangster.
immunity against covid-19 would last a lifetime.
The findings are based on a comparison of blood samples from 26 people recovering from Covid-19 from mild to moderate and 21 healthy donors whose samples were collected six to 10 years ago, long before they might have been exposed to Covid-19.
From these samples, the authors of the study measured levels of memory B cells and antibodies directed to specific parts of the body..........
Spike protein
, which exists in all coronaviruses and is crucial to help viruses infect cells.
immunity against covid-19 would last a lifetime.
Spike protein is seen and acts somewhat differently in each coronavirus, but one of its components, the S2 subunit, remains virtually the same in all viruses.
B memory cells cannot differentiate between S2 subunits of different coronaviruses, and attack indiscriminately.
At least, the study found that this was true for betacoronaviruses, a subclass that includes two cold-causing viruses, as well as SARS, MERS and SARS-CoV-2.
What this study does not show is the level of protection provided by the B cells of cross-reactive memory and how it impacts on patient outcomes.
That's the next one.
Now we have to see whether having this set of pre-existing memory B cells correlates with lighter symptoms and a shorter course of disease - or whether it helps to increase the effectiveness of Covid-19 vaccines, "adds another author, David Topham.