
Got COVID...Got treated...got released!
:)


Me and my wife admitted to the same hospital ...baby with in laws more than a week.
Mine was confirmed yeaterday.
She might just get a test but not so critical.

I'm getting plasma therapy today...If I can overpaint this little section quickly.


I was concerned about you as I had not seen any post from you.
Hope all of you improve rapidly.


Oh, KaustavM, I'm so sorry to hear that.
Please know that we are all thinking of you.
I wish there was something I could do.
I hate this damned virus!
I guess it was just a matter of time before a member here came down with it.

However hard it gets, Kaustav, please know that we care and are cheering for you.

I send you and your family lots of hugs.


Thanks both @oilpainter1950 @tassieguy doctor's are upbeat on my case.
My body can barely walk that it's so weak but a Covid recovery's plasma will add some strength and antibodies in me too.


Oh Kaustav, I was just wondering another day why we don't hear from you, wish you and your wife fast recovery and looking forward to see a lot of new beautiful paintings!


I am sorry to hear that @Kaustav, wishing you a speedy recovery.


Kaustav

Best wishes for the Mukherjee family.

Denis


@kaustavM my heart goes out to you and your family.
I am glad you are able to get the plasma antibodies.

Gerry GTO


I hope and pray for a fast recovery for you and your wife so that you can soon be a family again.


So sorry to hear this news @Kaustav I very much hope that you and your wife recover very quickly.

Please keep us informed about your progress as we will be worried until we know you’re all ok.

What a horrible time the world is having.


Thanks everyone.
We can go only upto a point but doctor's are tryin best and I'm trying to improve respiration of oxygen which is lower.
I'll keep you guys informed.


So very sorry to hear this.
My thoughts and prayers are with you and your family.
Be strong and wishing a strong recovery.
Still very fortunate where I am but the risk is so very high.


@Kaustav Really sorry to hear the news, hope you both recover peacefully and quickly.


Plasma therapy at least gave back some strength and taste back slightly.
There'll be another one three days later.
I guess this one is working.


That’s great news!


That’s such a relief for you.

And such a hopeful sign that you’ll soon be back at your easel.

Stay positive and you will come through this.


We're thinking of you, keep thinking of us and how you are going to proudly announce in a future post that you and your wife have beaten the virus.
Keep the faith.


Good to hear that, hope to see you back on the easel and your wife fully fit.


Best wishes to you both Kaustav.


Very best wishes @Kaustav and Mrs @Kaustav - stay strong and brush all this away,...


Good News!
My wife got discharged today and now on home quarantine.
They found actually nothing.


That is very good news, @KaustavM!


I am recovering slowly with bad respiratory condition.
Doctor's are now focusing on that Went through two plasma therapies that did away with high fever.
Weakness is due to my lungs and poor eating due to lack of taste.
Now trying to eat more.
Wish my luck guys.


Best of luck Kaustav.
Glad to hear your wife is home.


In so sorry you have had to go through this.
Hopefully things will improve rapidly.
I have had several friends that have been sick with this, but have seen slow improvement.
They have all been older with several other medical conditions.
It seems to take some time to recover.
Best wishes for you and your family.


All the best, hopefully soon you'll be home with loved ones too!


wish you a lot of luck, get well soon @kaustavM!


@kaustavM Glad to hear your wife is cleared and back home.
It sounds like you are getting good medical attention.
I am hoping you recover quickly and can be back hone with her.


Good news!
I'm glad but keep fighting.
eat lots of proteins.
Keep the faith.


Thanks everyone


Take care @kaustavM.
Nasty business indeed.


@kaustavM I hope you feel better.
I really don't know what else to say but I hope you get your strength back and doing the things you love.


Hope you’re doing better and better @Kaustav


Tomorrow they're going to put me into general room perhaps.
I'm taking as many photos of this place for a contemporary theme picture.
Doctor's gestures etc.
It wont be emotional one but a medical one.


I hope everything continues to go well for strong recovery!


Very happy to hear you are better.


Sounds good, @Kaustav.
Good artists will find subjects anywhere - even in hospitals.
Glad you seem to be on the mend.


I am so glad to hear you are getting better.

What a relief, a new lease on life!
Our spirit grows when we face such difficulties.


Relieved to hear you are making progress.
Take your vitamins and keep the faith.


Wish a you a very speed recovery Kaustav!
you will be in my prayers... the worst is over as you are being shifted.
Age is on your side and so is your spirit and positivity, you'll come back stronger Kaustav!!!
your family is okay and am sure that gives you a lot of strength to fight and get over this to join them!
Cant wait to see u back!


I haven't been active here for several years so I'm sure you don't remember me, but I remember you!
Glad to see your wife is OK and that your condition is improving!
I had not heard of plasma therapy before, sounds encouraging.
(((hug)))


Thank you everyone!
Only wish I had some paper and pen so that I could start on this hospital ICU painting.
Mobile softwares dont work that well with me.


Good to hear that you are on the mend


I've been trying to use my time to make plans for future big medical painting.
So was busy drawing on softwares some plans etc.
Doctors in PPE, their gestures, overall composition etc.
Mobile softwares do not work that well with fingers but still getting something out of nothing.
Also, made a full scale draft about my forthcoming video about my choice of color.






Thanks very much @A_Time_To_Paint I'm just using this time for future.
I can't just stay down all the time.


Not many people would be able to plan a painting whilst in ICU ......
You’re definitely an artist @Kaustav.

So good to hear you’re getting your strength back.

Stay upbeat and positive and you’ll be home with your family very soon.

What a scary time the world is having.

I hope @LDuran is ok because as you know , he’s on the front line in a hospital in Brazil.
He hasn’t posted in quite a while.

Good to have good news from you @Kaustav.
Onwards and upwards.


Hope you’re feeling better @kaustavM, my brother and his family got it a while ago and his wife had pneumonia like symptoms for a while.
They’re both fully recovered now though and I’m sure you’ll do the same Take it easy!


Glad to see you are feeling better.
You are definitely a dedicated artist.
I hope that soon you’ll be back home.


Even if others can't find the faces and gestures in your squiggly line drawings your brain will recognize them and remind you of what you wanted to capture.
Focusing on the future is a good idea.
Keep it up and get well.


Nothing much to do...I'm drawing them whenever they're stopping for a while.
Good practice here.
Would have been better with a stylus.







Glad that you're on the mend!
These are real good gesture drawings.


