
Are house parties allowed during COVID-19?



New measures announced by the Government limits the amount of people who can be in one household at a time


The whole of the Republic of Ireland is currently at Level 5 COVID-19 restrictions.
Level 5 means that the public health risk is high.
No visitors are allowed in your home or garden except for essential family reasons (such as caring for children or elderly family members), or as part of a support bubble.

Can I have a party in my house?


Level 5 is the most restrictive level for COVID-19 measures.
Level 5 means that the public health risk is high.
Due to the restrictions on gatherings inside the home, having a house party is not allowed.
It is not possible to have visitors from outside your home at this time.

Visitors to your home


No visitors are allowed in your home or garden except for essential family reasons (such as caring for children or elderly family members), or as part of a support bubble.

What is a support bubble?


"Bubbles" are for people who risk experiencing isolation, people who co-parent or have shared custody arrangements, people who live alone who experience mental health difficult and people living with a partner with dementia.
In these situations you are allowed to choose one other household that you can mix with.

For example:

If you have a child but do not live with the child's other parent, you are allowed to visit their parent's house to help manage co-parenting

If you live alone but experience mental health difficulties you can choose one other household, such as your parent's home, to visit


Once you have picked a certain household you are only allowed to visit them.

Why is having a house party a risk?


COVID-19 is a highly transmissible infectious disease, and the virus wants to spread.
But it needs people to come into contact to do so.
Coming together in groups, in enclosed spaces with a lack of ventilation, where there is close contact between people and long durations of time spent together creates an environment where it is easier for the virus to spread.
Laughing, shouting or singing can release droplets that may contain the virus and infect other people nearby.
These are all risk factors to be aware of.
To reduce your risk, limit your time in other people’s homes.
Keep your social contacts as low as possible.
Stick to outdoor meet-ups if possible.

Are weddings, funerals and other family occasions allowed?

Up to 6 guests are permitted at weddings

Up to 10 mourners can currently attend a funeral

Organised events taking place outside with an event organiser or manager, are not allowed at this time


Why are there limits on gatherings?


As COVID-19 restrictions ease, many people want to spend time with friends and family and do things they weren’t able to do during lockdown.
However, just because the restrictions are lifting does not mean that the virus has gone away.
This is why it’s necessary to continue to follow guidelines around social distancing, washing your hands, wearing face masks, and avoiding close contact with people outside your household.

You may be feeling nervous about restrictions lifting.
Here are some things you can do to stay safe as we come out of lockdown.

Feeling overwhelmed or want to talk to someone right now?


Get anonymous support 24/7 with our text message support service

Connect with a trained volunteer who will listen to you, and help you to move forward feeling better

Free Text SPUNOUT to 50808 to begin


