
Covid may be the appetizer


China, imagine that, is denying any knowledge, imagine that, of the niaph virus in Cairo at their embassy.
I never heard of this virus before, and nave done a bit of research.
there's not a lot out there, but apparently, it is so deadly, only a few places in the world are allowed to house/research the virus due to bioterrorism concerns.
It is 75% fatal.
Spreads in food sources.
No known treatments exist.

If one wanted to test the waters with covid, this would be the next step IMO

Mods: I am putting this in the corona section because I figured the people reading this thread would be most intersted in this information.

Regards

Chinese Embassy in Cairo denies Nipah virus connection - Egypt Independent


The Chinese embassy in Cairo said that linking what is known as the Nipah virus to China is incorrect, stating that there is no evidence to these reports.

www.egyptindependent.com


Interesting It has been around apparently, but I never heard of it Freaking bats....again

"Nipah virus (NiV) was first discovered in 1999 following an outbreak of disease in pigs and people in Malaysia and Singapore.
This outbreak resulted in nearly 300 human cases and more than 100 deaths, and caused substantial economic impact as more than 1 million pigs were killed to help control the outbreak.

While there have been no other known outbreaks of NiV in Malaysia and Singapore since 1999, outbreaks have been recorded almost annually in some parts of Asia since then—primarily in Bangladesh and India.
The virus has been shown to spread from person-to-person in these outbreaks, raising concerns about the potential for NiV to cause a global pandemic.

NiV is a member of the family

Paramyxoviridae

, genus

Henipavirus

.
It is a zoonotic virus, meaning that it initially spreads between animals and people.
The animal host reservoir for NiV is the fruit bat (genus

Pteropus

), also known as the flying fox.
Given that NiV is genetically related to Hendra virus, another henipavirus known to be carried by bats, bat species were quickly singled out for investigation and flying foxes were subsequently identified as the reservoir.

Infected fruit bats can spread the disease to people or other animals, such as pigs.
People can become infected if they have close contact with an infected animal or its body fluids (such as saliva or urine)—this initial spread from an animal to a person is known as a spillover event.
Once it spreads to people, person-to-person spread of NiV can also occur.

The symptoms of NiV infection range from mild to severe, with death occurring in 40%–70% of those infected in documented outbreaks between 1998 and 2018."

What is Nipah Virus?
| Nipah Virus (NiV) | CDC


www.cdc.gov


Great minds think alike, eh ImRight?
I've been thinking that COVID is a dry run.

Yes, COVID19 isn't nearly deadly enough to be a real bio-weapon.

But it is deadly enough to be a dry run, a test of the world's reactions to a pandemic.

Or, now that we've established it can mutate into deadlier variants, what a great time for the Chinese to seed the bio-weapon variant of it in an international airport!
The fingers would not point at them if a "natural" variant suddenly became much more deadly.


so, three masks?


Ok everyone.
Let's hear it for China once again.
Nuke these aholes and get it over with.


Oh so simple in argument...

You really think that if this is for real that China would be the one to play with this fire?

no no no.

think bigger.

MUCH bigger!


here is the CDC website:

Nipha Virus


I get the weird feeling someone's trying to off a boatload of humans.
I'd rack it up as my tinfoil hat being too tight, if they would stop having meetings discussing it and putting out papers.


OK, I saw an article about this and ignored it.
Sigh, now I can't ignore it anymore.
Thanks a bunch.....
There is so much evil in this world it really seems like a matter of time before something really, really bad comes along.



Im RIght said: China, imagine that, is denying any knowledge, imagine that, of the niaph virus in Cairo at their embassy.
I never heard of this virus before, and nave done a bit of research.
there's not a lot out there, but apparently, it is so deadly, only a few places in the world are allowed to house/research the virus due to bioterrorism concerns.
It is 75% fatal.
Spreads in food sources.
No known treatments exist.
If one wanted to test the waters with covid, this would be the next step IMO Mods: I am putting this in the corona section because I figured the people reading this thread would be most intersted in this information.
Regards

Chinese Embassy in Cairo denies Nipah virus connection - Egypt Independent

The Chinese embassy in Cairo said that linking what is known as the Nipah virus to China is incorrect, stating that there is no evidence to these reports.
www.egyptindependent.com Click to expand...

Thank you for letting us all know about this.
I've been thinking for awhile this is a trial run to something bigger.....someday.
It's good to know what the origin source would perhaps be.



Don't worry, our clueless....err...fearless leader has us covered.


I think I read somewhere that those invisible hands that are in control want the population of the USA down to 69Mil by 2025.
This would surely 'help'...



InOmaha said: Don't worry, our clueless....err...fearless leader has us covered.
https://twitter.com/i/web/status/1356459439885324290


OMG, everybody in the world must be thinking WTF is guy going by and why isn't he in a nursing home by now?
Clearly he isn't 'there'.



Trump wasn't very articulate either.
But I think he could keep millions and hundreds straight.

Trump got 98% bad press for his speaking.
I await the same treatment for clueless Joe.



InOmaha said: Trump wasn't very articulate either.
But I think he could keep millions and hundreds straight.
Trump got 98% bad press for his speaking.
I await the same treatment for clueless Joe.

That video was cringeworthy to watch.
While he doesn't represent my political leanings, I do feel for him.
Dementia matters to me and the issue is close to my heart-my dear Hubby's family is dealing with it.



You all have it wrong.... maybe vaccine requires 20,000 doses??


Did a bit of Googling on this.
With the 75% fatality rate the article above states, there is no treatment other than supportive.
However, guess what?
mRNA vaccine trials are underway, and Remdesivir is a possible treatment.
Sound familiar?


BackwaterHerbalist said: Did a bit of Googling on this.
With the 75% fatality rate the article above states, there is no treatment other than supportive.
However, guess what?
mRNA vaccine trials are underway, and Remdesivir is a possible treatment.
Sound familiar?


Coincidences do happen but that gives me a chill.
If I have time I may try to find out where the labs are where this is studied.


PeterWiggin said: so, three masks?


And anal masks too to guard against swabbing


I still wont wear a mask, it’s all propaganda.
Sheep will be sheep.


