
CDC: Some Americans are misusing cleaning products — including drinking them — in effort to kill coronavirus


Who is more idiotic?
The people presenting this "scientific" report knowing it’s not done the proper scientific way or an unbelievable 20% people who cannot even read a product label little less to use what’s called a common sense.
In any case it’s a tragedy upon a tragedy.


Given the politics over Trump’s bleach statement?

That 1 in 5 actually put bleach on food or that a bunch of people trolled this totally unscientific, opt-in survey?

I love StatNews, but this survey is probably as reliable and the Surgispehre data.


Another anti-Trump rubbish by "experts".
Trump should tell people PhDs prevent COVID-19 and then we see if more people will enroll for PhD courses.

The "experts" and the media take millions of people as fools.


That means still there are many who listen to their president!


Shhhhh.
Darwin at work!


"Thirty-nine percent had misused the cleaning products" – so about the same percentage that voted for Trump in 2016.
Basically the most uneducated inbred Americans ever, that blame immigrants/liberals/global trade/opiates/China/gun control/Obama Care for their lot in life, rather than taking ownership for educating themselves and improving their situation.


But I thought it was rich people and the one percent that voted for Trump?
That is a narrative often heard–that Trump is "for the rich."
This would conflict with your characterization of the entire percentage you state being a bunch of mouth breathers.


This bit of "throw away " information was gleaned from an online survey of 502 people, compiled, analyzed and written by 11, yes 11 PhD’s.
We learned that a small, non-representative group of people using smartphones or computers are dumb enough to poison themselves because they have been scared out of their gourds by misrepresentations by "experts" and the slavish media.
The only scientific principles proved here is that 1.
Agitprop works 2.
Darwin is right.
Oh, and one other thing the Orange Guy is bad!


Everyone is to blame: The media, the idiots, the experts…even the researchers leading this "throw away" study.
Yes, everyone is to blame.
Everyone, that is, except the President.
That bastion of truth and tremendous ideas.
That paragon of dignity, knowledge, and measured leadership.
Thank you for opening our eyes.
You are a tremendous American.


It’s everyone else’s fault, right?
Please, pretty please, take some ownership.
There is no perfect administration, no one can get everything right all of the time, so it’s ok to be objective and call things as they are.
This administration has made many errors, many were costly.
I am not sure how one can deny that.


Bleach on the skin is not very dangerous.
I have soaked my feet in bleach and water plenty of times to remove bacteria and fungus.
There are no problems.
I even use a mixture of bleach and 91% isopropyl alcohol as a sanitizer because using public transportation and washing one’s hands frequently is not viable.
I would not put bleach on open wounds and sores but for infrequent or occassional use I would recommend it.
No, do not drink it.
That will kill a person.


I would not do what you are doing with bleach–but clearly you are getting by with it and presumably still well enough to write.
My dentist says to rinse my mouth with diluted bleach.
In fact that has been in vogue among west coast dentists for about the last 8 years.
I refused to do it, but many are and doing great keeping the cavities at bay.
So you may be right that some dilute usage is not as dangerous as one would think.


