
What’s ‘Bat Soup,’ and Did It Cause the New Coronavirus?


Additionally, the clip was filmed in 2016.
This was long before the first COVID-19 cases were diagnosed.

Coronaviruses are a large family of viruses.
They can affect many different mammals, including:

bats

cats

camels

cattle


Some types of coronaviruses also affect humans.
But most of these viruses cause mild upper-respiratory illnesses.

It’s rare for animal coronaviruses to spread to people.
However, this has occurred with the new coronavirus that causes COVID-19.

It’s been confirmed that the outbreak stemmed from a wholesale meat market in Wuhan.
The virus was found in the area where live animals were kept, according to a 2020 article from the journal Microbiology Australia.

This doesn’t mean that the virus began

in

the market, though.
It only means the market played a role in spreading the virus.
In fact, a 2020 study in the Lancet found that 14 of the first 41 people confirmed to have COVID-19 didn’t visit the market.
This suggests there are other sources.

According to a study shared by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), it’s possible that bats with the new coronavirus were introduced to the market.
This might have allowed recombination, or viruses exchanging genetic material to create a new virus.

Therefore, bats may have played a role in the COVID-19 outbreak.
But it likely wasn’t through the consumption of bat soup.
As of December 2020, the exact source of the new coronavirus hasn’t been confirmed.
The WHO is developing a plan to track the source.

In addition to COVID-19, bats can spread other diseases that infect humans.
This includes:

Nipah disease

Hendra disease


We’ll email you the latest developments about the novel coronavirus and Healthline's top health news stories, daily.

Person-to-person contact


The novel coronavirus commonly spreads when someone comes into contact with a person who has the virus.
It’s mainly spread through their respiratory droplets.

These droplets, which may contain the virus, are produced when the person:

coughs

sneezes

sings

talks

breathes


If the droplets land on your nose or mouth or if you inhale the droplets, the virus can enter your body.
This is more likely if people are within six feet of each other.

Airborne transmission


Sometimes, respiratory droplets containing the virus may linger in the air.

In this scenario, a person who enters the space might contract the virus, even after the original person with the virus leaves.
The virus may also spread to people more than six feet away.

This depends on many factors, including how long the person with the infection stays in the space and the room’s ventilation.

Still, the virus is more likely to spread through person-to-person contact than airborne transmission.

Contact with contaminated surfaces


Less commonly, the virus may spread via touching contaminated surfaces.

When droplets are released into the air, they eventually land on a surface.
If you touch the surface then your eyes, nose, or mouth, the virus might enter your body.

This method is even less common than airborne transmission.
But it’s still a good idea to avoid touching your eyes, nose, or mouth after touching other objects.

The rumors about bat soup and COVID-19 are false.
The myth started when a video of a woman eating bat soup went viral.
However, the video was taken in 2016 and filmed in Palau, a country in the Pacific Ocean.

Bats may have played a role in the COVID-19 pandemic, but bat soup wasn’t the direct cause.
Researchers are still looking for the exact source.


