
Fact check: Document claiming to show CDC guidance about various types of masks is a fake


The claim: The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention released guidelines to the general public that say cloth masks trap carbon dioxide.


Social media posts about the claim reference an image of a document with a header that mimics the official CDC letterhead.
The document, titled "N95 General Public," compares the effectiveness of N95 masks, surgical masks cloth and face coverings.

Among others, Facebook user Brendan Bell shared the claim in a July 13 post.
To date, it has more than 1,700 shares.

N95 masks work best in contaminated environments yet release COVID-19 through your breath, the document claims.
Meanwhile, surgical masks may be approved for sterile environments but trap COVID-19 particles between your face and the mask.

Finally, cloth masks are a direct danger to your health, the document also claims.

"CLOTH MASK: (DO NOT FILTER ANYTHING).
As you exhale, you are ridding your lung of contaminants and carbon dioxide.
CLOTH MASKS trap this carbon dioxide the best.
It actually risks your HEALTH rather than protect it.
The moisture trapped in (the) mask will become mildew ridden in 30 minutes.
Dry coughing, enhanced allergies, sore throat all all symptoms of a micro-mold in your mask," the document reads, circled in red.

"Look CDC stated this case closed," Bell wrote along with the hashtag #maskoff in the post caption.

Bell did not respond to a request for comment from USA TODAY.

What does the CDC say about N95, surgical and cloth masks?


An infographic posted on the website of the CDC's National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health compares and contrasts N95 masks with surgical masks.
While surgical masks are resistant to bodily fluids and protect others against the wearers' respiratory emissions, they are looser-fitting than N95 masks and, thus, do not protect against smaller airborne particles.

Fact check:What's true and what's false about face masks?

Alternatively, N95 masks undergo fit testing and user seal check requirements.
They also filter-out 95% of large and small airborne particles when fitted properly.

On the site, which is targeted to workers, the CDC states either mask should be discarded after each encounter with a patient.

N95 manufacturer 3M confirmed whether viruses could be expelled through a mask fitted with a respirator in a product FAQ.

"Since there have been no published studies on this topic, it cannot be definitively said that no virus-containing aerosols expelled by a wearer would exit the respirator through the exhalation valve," read a statement.

Meanwhile, the CDC infographic does not mention the potential for COVID-19 particles to become trapped behind a properly-fitted surgical mask.

Unlike N95 or surgical masks, cloth coverings can be washed and worn again.
That is why the CDC recommends them for everyday use to help slow the spread of COVID-19.

The disease is spread through respiratory droplets.
When worn in public, cloth face coverings can help prevent the wearers' bodily fluids from transferring to others, according to official CDC guidelines.

Cloth face coverings are not a danger to people over the age of 2 who do not have breathing trouble and can remove a mask unassisted, the CDC states.

Do cloth face coverings trap carbon dioxide?


USA TODAY reported on the chances of developing hypercapnia – a condition resulting from a buildup of carbon dioxide in the bloodstream – from cloth face coverings in a prior fact check.

A dangerous buildup of CO2 is unlikely, USA TODAY previously reported, because the general public does not wear face coverings for prolonged periods of time.

"Additionally, the CDC told Reuters, 'The CO2 will slowly build up in the mask over time.
However, the level of CO2 likely to build up in the mask is mostly tolerable to people exposed to it ...
It is unlikely that wearing a mask will cause hypercapnia'," USA TODAY reported.

Jasmine Reed, public affairs specialist for the CDC, told USA TODAY in an email that the CDC's recommendations for cloth face coverings have not changed.

"CDC recommends that people wear cloth face coverings in public settings and when around people who don’t live in your household; especially, when other social distancing measures are difficult to maintain.
Cloth face coverings may help prevent people who have COVID-19 from spreading the virus to others.
Cloth face coverings are most likely to reduce the spread of COVID-19 when they are widely used by people in public settings," Reed said.
She also debunked the authenticity of the document depicted in the Facebook post.

"To note, CDC typically does not issue guidance or recommendations to the public in such a format.
CDC’s guidance and recommendations are distributed on the agency’s website, officials social media accounts and through news media," Reed told USA TODAY.

Our rating: False


We rate this claim FALSE because it is not supported by our research.
The claim is based on a document that was not released by the CDC.
The agency also does not state that cloth face coverings will trap carbon dioxide.

Our fact-check sources:


Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, "Infographic - Understanding the Difference, Surgical Mask, N95 Respirator"

Thank you for supporting our journalism.
You can subscribe to our print edition, ad-free app or electronic newspaper replica here.

Our fact check work is supported in part by a grant from Facebook.


