
9 Immunity Boosting Herbs To Beat COVID-19!



Wondering how to boost your immunity against COVID-19?
Well as you know, a strong immune system could be the perfect solution to tackle COVID-19!
So the next question that arises is, how do you boost your immunity in a way that doesn’t harm your body?
Simple!
Switch to the miraculous solutions that Ayurveda provides!

Ayurveda and immunity


This ancient medical science had stated long ago that plant extracts could do a lot to strengthen the body.
According to Ayurveda, our body can withstand infections only when all the seven layers of our body’s tissues (

Rasa, Mamsa, Rakta, Medha, Majja, Asthi

and

Shukra

) are strong.
When the seven layers are working together, our immunity will be boosted.

And what do the layers need to stay healthy?

Ojas.

It is a subtle and invisible essence of your body tissues that keeps you healthy.
Ayurveda has said that certain plants and plant products can build

ojas

to empower our immunity.

Here are a few herbs that will help your body produce more

ojas

and keep COVID-19 at bay.

Make a point to consume one or more of the following every day during lockdown-



Moringa



Moringa is a herb that can ward off many health complications.
And during the COVID-19 pandemic, it should be your go-to herb for immunity strengthening.

So what makes

moringa

such a powerful immunity booster?
It contains 7 times more Vitamin C than even oranges.
Vitamin C is the chief nutrient that our bodies need to build strong immunity.

That’s not all,

moringa

also contains some other vital nutrients that strengthen your cells, muscles, tissues and help your body heal.
Consume moringa for its high levels of potassium, iron, calcium and amino acids.

Read More: 16 Health Benefits of Moringa



Neem



Since time immemorial,

neem

has been respected and widely used as an immunity booster.
It is very effective in keeping the body safe from attacks by harmful pathogens, thanks to its anti-viral, anti-bacterial and anti-fungal properties.

Neem

can also keep your blood clean.
It purifies the blood by flushing away toxins and this can strengthen immunity.



Tulsi


Tulsi

is another wonder herb that is much favoured by Ayurveda.
This aromatic leaf can be your primary line of defence against COVID-19.

Tulsi

or basil is a powerful germicide.
Because of its phytochemicals and antioxidants, it can effectively locate germs, viruses and bacteria the moment they enter your body and destroy them.

Simply chew a few leaves first thing in the morning.
You can also add a few drops of water boiled with

tulsi

leaves into your food.

Read More: 11 Health Benefits of Tulsi

Ashwagandha

is an adaptogen, which means it can decrease stress levels.
Stress lowers your immune response and makes the body vulnerable to viral infections.
Consume

ashwagandha

during this pandemic to reduce the risk of contracting the coronavirus infection.



Triphala



Triphala contains the antioxidative properties of three fruits-

haritaki, bibhitaki

and

amla

.
It is loaded with Vitamin C and Vitamin A- both of which strengthen your immunity.
Start your day with

Triphala

.



Ginger



Ginger has been an age-old remedy for flu and the common cold.
It can also be effective against COVID-19.
It contains gingerol – an antioxidant that can power up our immune system and kill viruses.
Ginger is particularly good in preventing respiratory tract infections.
Add ginger to your meals or you can also have it raw.



Garlic



Just like ginger, garlic too will protect you from coronavirus by stimulating your immunity.
It contains allicin- a plant compound that acts as a germicide.
But remember, to make the most of garlic, consume it raw or partially cooked.

Read More: 10 Health Benefits of Garlic



Turmeric



Every time your grandmother said you need to consume turmeric for your health, she was right.
Turmeric contains curcumin– a phytochemical that can remove toxins from your body and strengthen your immune system to fight off germs and bacteria.
Add an extra dash of turmeric to your meals or consume it with milk.

Read More: 10 Health Benefits of Turmeric



Black cumin



Black cumin extracts can keep you safe from a range of viruses and bacteria that attack your immune system.
Both black cumin seeds and oil act as antioxidants and help flush out free radicals that weaken your immunity.

The things you need to improve your immunity are all within your reach.
Consume these herbs and stay home to beat coronavirus!


