
Suspected Recurrent SARS-CoV-2 Infections Among Residents of a Skilled Nursing Facility During a Second COVID-19 Outbreak — Kentucky, July–November 2020


First Outbreak: Investigation and Findings


In July, a Kentucky SNF notified the local health department of a case of COVID-19 in one of the facility’s HCP; KDPH was also notified.
RT-PCR testing was performed in accordance with state protocol to identify additional cases among residents and HCP.
A confirmed COVID-19 case was defined as a positive RT-PCR test result for a SNF resident or HCP.
The index patient in this outbreak was a symptomatic HCP.
Initially, symptomatic persons and exposed residents who had received direct care and HCP who had close contact with the infected HCP were tested.

†

Facility-wide testing for all residents and HCP began when additional positive test results were received.
Residents and HCP who received negative results were retested weekly; in addition, anyone experiencing symptoms was tested at the time of symptom onset.
Residents with positive test results were cohorted in a separate COVID-19 unit with dedicated HCP who used appropriate personal protective equipment.
The SNF required the receipt of two negative test results collected >24 hours apart to release patients from the COVID-19 unit.
HCP with positive test results could not return to work until completion of their isolation period.

§

Residents who had been exposed to COVID-19 with negative test results were cohorted in a separate unit, primarily in double-occupancy rooms.
Weekly testing of all noninfected HCP and residents continued for >14 days after the final case of the initial outbreak was identified.
In total, 20 (17.4%) of 115 residents and five (3.5%) of 143 HCP in this facility received positive test results during July 16–August 11, representing an overall attack rate of 9.7%.
Eight (40.0%) residents with COVID-19 were hospitalized, and five (25.0%) residents with COVID-19 died.
No hospitalizations or deaths occurred among HCP with COVID-19.

KDPH and the local health department encouraged the facility to continue to monitor hand hygiene of residents and HCP, emphasize environmental cleaning and disinfection, practice universal masking, use standard precautions for general resident contact, quarantine newly-admitted and readmitted patients for 14 days, employ testing, and restrict visitation based on county-level incidence rates.
The facility continued to monitor all residents and HCP for signs and symptoms of COVID-19 and to test symptomatic persons.
The SNF continued to test HCP at least every other week between the two outbreaks.
A total of 597 facility-ordered RT-PCR tests were performed in September, and 331 tests were performed during October 1–29; all results were negative.


