
Mayo Clinic study suggests plasma treatment reduces COVID-19 deaths



Infusing sick COVID-19 patients with blood plasma from recovered patients may help reduce mortality from the disease if the plasma is given early and contains enough virus-neutralizing antibodies.

The finding was reported in an observational study by the Mayo Clinic involving 35,322 COVID-19 patients between April and July across hundreds of hospitals.

Because it's an observational study and not a clinical trial, the results can't be used to prove the treatment works.
But the data did show some encouraging trends and can be used to improve patient care.

The study's lead researcher, Michael Joyner, estimates that plasma treatments could reduce the COVID-19 mortality rate by 20 to 50% in the general population.

In Mayo's study, the mortality rate was lower in patients who received plasma within the first three days of getting a diagnosis versus those who received plasma later on.

"We want to treat people early, before they are on a mechanical ventilator, within a few days of diagnosis," Joyner said.
"Use it early, early, early, early."

In patients who received plasma within three days after diagnosis, the mortality rate after 7 days was 8.7% and after 30 days, it was 26.1%.
By comparison, the group that received plasma later had a 7-day mortality rate of 11.9% and a 30-day mortality rate of 26.7%.

Hospitalized COVID-19 patients have higher mortality rates than the general population, especially those in the ICU, and patients who require mechanical ventilation have an even lower chance of survival.
Since some of the patients in this study were already in the ICU, these mortality rates were not a cause for concern among researchers.

An earlier Mayo study assessed the safety of plasma treatments in 5,000 patients and found plasma treatment was safe to use on COVID-19 patients.

Not all plasma treatments are created equal, however.
Because plasma treatments rely on donated blood, there's a lot of variability between treatments, including how many antibodies are present in one dose of plasma.

Antibodies are substances created by the immune system in response to an infection.
Antibodies for COVID-19 bind to the novel coronavirus's spikes to prevent the virus from entering and infecting cells.

According to Joyner, the study showed that antibodies are going to play a key role in helping to defeat COVID-19 and the more antibodies a patient can get, the better.

Across all patients in the study, those who were given plasma with high amounts of antibodies had a lower mortality rate of 8.9% versus those who received low amounts of antibodies, who had a mortality rate of 13.7%.

"The most important thing anybody can do is to donate if they're capable of donating," he said.

According to Joyner, the level of antibodies in a person's blood tends to peak a few weeks after they've recovered from COVID-19.
He recommended that people should donate plasma about three weeks after recovering and said they can donate up to two or three times.

Mayo plans to continue its expanded access program for COVID-19 plasma treatment, but also faces some donation shortages along with a high demand for the treatment, Joyner said.

In the study results published so far, the lowest mortality rate was 6.1% for patients who had received plasma within three days of diagnosis with a high dose of antibodies.
When combined with animal study data, Joyner said these results become "more convincing" that plasma treatment can make an important difference in COVID-19 treatment.

Mayo's study was not a randomized, placebo-controlled or blinded study, meaning that it can't be used to prove whether plasma treatment actually works.
That's because there could be a number of other, uncontrolled variables that could affect the results in an observational study like this one.

The only way to prove whether this type of treatment works is through a controlled study where researchers compare results between patients who receive plasma and patients who receive a placebo instead of plasma.
Neither the patient nor the researcher knows who got what until the trial is complete.

There are several clinical trials of plasma underway right now, including a few within Mayo's research network.

This study wasn't done as a trial, which increased access to the potential treatment, according to Joyner.

"Most hospitals aren't research hospitals.
They're community hospitals or rural hospitals designed to take care of patients," he said.

Such hospitals may not have the resources or capacity to participate in clinical trials, which require a lot of staffing, time and effort, he said.
By providing the plasma treatment through an expanded access program, the hospitals were able to offer treatment they wouldn't be able to otherwise, he said.

Joyner estimated that at least 90% of the hospitals and health care sites that participated in the study were not geared toward intensive research and may not have been able to participate if the observational study had been done as a controlled clinical trial instead.

Free COVID-19 testing program for K-12 schools to begin in fall People with COVID-19 now have one thing in common How Arizona will spend $1B in federal relief money Arizona COVID-19 updates: Latest news


Early on in the study, Joyner said plasma was tested as a "rescue" therapy for patients in the ICU who were already on ventilators, but the death rate did not change as significantly for those patients, despite the treatment.

That's because those patients tend to be more complicated and may already have multiple organ failure.

"A lot of cats are out of the bag, or genies out of the bottle, and it's really, really hard to put them all back in," he said.

More of the damage seen in late-stage COVID-19 patients comes from the body's inflammatory response to the virus instead of the virus itself.

So the study shifted to start administering plasma more to patients outside of the ICU, where the treatment seems to have had more success.
This is consistent with past use of plasma treatments for other diseases, such as in the 1918 pandemic of the Spanish Flu.

For the sickest COVID-19 patients in the ICU, treatment options are still extremely limited, and successful treatments are even rarer.

Amanda Morris covers all things bioscience, which includes health care, technology, new research and the environment.
Send her tips, story ideas, or dog memes at amorris@gannett.com and follow her on Twitter @amandamomorris for the latest bioscience updates.

Independent coverage of bioscience in Arizona is supported by a grant from the Flinn Foundation.


