
What will be the after effects of social distancing and complete lockdown imposed due to the spread of coronavirus?


The pathogens will keep coming just as they have for billions of years.
It's valuable to remember that microbes once had the planet all to themselves.
Bacteria and viruses.

Also?
90+% of what each of us calls 'my self' is microbes.
90+% of all cells in our bodies are bacteria et al.

And?

We owe most of our current nature to both our benign microbial tennants - and the ones that have tried to kill us.

So.
Viruses are always with us.
They were here long long long before us.
There's no preventing them inventing new expressions of their ‘inner self'.

The best we can do is be as vigilant as possible.
Th

The previous SARS was far more dangerous if you got it.
This new that that causes the COVID-19 disease, the virus that causes it, is also a SARS virus.
It’s called SARS-CoV-2.
Also called novel coronavirus.
The virus itself isn’t called COVID-19.
The disease it causes is called COVID-19.

So anyway, this new novel coronavirus, can spread when no symptoms are there or before symptoms arise.
It makes it rather stealth.
Also… and this is not discussed much, many people actually *DO* get symptoms, but those symptoms are mild.
A mild fever for example.
The problem is that people can’t be bothered or

You know the answer already as you said…"like it

Here is my 2 cents worth…

China has the political will, discipline, and resources to do what they have to do to solve whatever problems they face.
Once they realise the coronavirus flu is not just your common flu, they mobilized into action.
They shutdown and literally quarantined Wuhan, a city of 11 million people.
Which country can do this ?
They mobilized their medical resources into Hubei province immediately, and built a 1000 bed hospital in 6 days !!

Of course they will have to discipline and change the poor personal hygiene h

Thank you for the A2A:

Is it true that unlike SARS and MERS, the coronavirus can yield mild or asymptomatic cases that are more difficult to detect, making it harder to contain?

Yes, this is highly likely as a number of cases in Europe have no apparent contact with known cases, have not traveled to areas where known cases have been detected.
We also know that quite a few cases are mild diseases that mimic a normal upper respiratory infection.

Statistical models that have been applied to the current data from the outbreak indicate that there is probably a considerable number of asymptomatic cases


