
Japanese TV report sparks speculations in China that COVID-19 may have originated in US


It wouldn't be a suprise if it originated from USA.


The basic logic is that the geographical location with the greatest diversity of virus strains must be the original source because a single strain cannot emerge from nothing.
And USA had a lot of strains of the COVID-19 virus.
Which points out that it originated in USA most likely in a US Lab.


Thê alleged repôrt would have been uploaded to YouTube and if it existed in any case, the station today may belong to another Chinese company.
Everyone knows that COVID-19 originated in China thanks to corruption and a poor health system.


TV Asahi Corporation of Japan isn't CCP owned you dope


Ya america is responsible for everything!
A liars nation!

Weapons of mass destruction 😂?
Titanic was unsinkable?
Moon landing 😂?

they used viruses to kill their own natives.
Dirty GENOCIDAL TERR.
ORISTS!
SICK OF ameri.cans DOGS


Poor Health Care system?
Does China have 500,000 people filing for Bankruptcy annually due to high medical debt?
Do you even know that China has a Health Care System that covers almost 100% of her people?


Typical deranged Yankee far right trumpturds trying to be a smart alec in spewing disinformation to smear as usual.
Since when are Japanese media companies owned by foreigners?

You make sweeping generalizations about Chinese "corruption" when your country (I assume you are American or representing America) is the one that is UTTERLY CORRUPT.
Right from the top; Your equally deranged president.

Healthwise, your system fails to insurance cover 80 million American and you pay more than double what other developed country citizens pay.
Your system is only for the rich.
Even now, it is a self-declared truth that the LOUSY American health system will be unable to cope with the AMERICAN CORONAVIRUS outbreak.
More than 50% of America's 350 million people are expected to be infected by your Fort Detrick's Virus and millions may die because you lack facilities, equipment and trained personnel.
No real vaccine is expected to be available to Americans for 18 months.

Beyond this, you think we do not notice you use the word "may" to cast aspersions wilfully and deliberately on China, imputing the "station may belong to another Chinese company".
You are obviously not here to give a different point of view or opinion but to smear.
That makes you another "AMERICAN TROLL" if not a VIRUS, if you are not already a CIA house troll here using a different name today.
F all American low lives and their koolie trolls.


Right.
Unlike the US healthcare system which is the gold standard!
That and the military that sprays of with neurotoxins daily.
Oof.


shut up gusano pos


This comment was deleted.


why not ???


Apparently, a SMART African.


How would you know, moron?
You must have some experienced maybe?
Like you live in NZ?


you're the definition of a leftist socialist autistic man-child.
100% chance you live your mom's basement and think people on the right wing are fascist or racist.
you're an actual clown


And your're a loser that you need to resort to racialist taunts.
That much is obvious.


Jew neocon criminal are the greatest threat and enemy of Japan, China and Asian at large, Jew criminal hiding in US department declare never ending war against China, Japan and ASEAN.
For the last 150 yrs, 600+ millions Chinese, Japanese, Korean, Vietnamese and Asian bloods are on the Jew warmonger criminal hands, history remember, crime must pays, Japanese Youth never forget Jew build the Atomic Bombs and Jew Truman drop it on Japanese women and children, millions of Japanese bloods are on the Jew warmonger criminal hands, Japanese retaliate, 1967 JRA Kamikaze and bombs Tel Aviv airport Israel, JRA decide to finish the job another times.


The 1918 Spanish flu also likely originated from the USA, which had some of the earliest cases of the virus.
Just another example of America First policy, with the USA blaming its own problems on other countries.


This comment was deleted.


Wuhan Virology Lab is ready to open up its Lab books, logs and records for examination.
Is the US Fort Detrick Lab ready to open up its logs, books, records, and personnel to an impartial international Commission of Inquiry?


This comment was deleted.


mongo.khan I've read every single one of your comments here but this one is definitely the best.


How long before Donald accuses China of stealing Covid-19 from the USA?

Indeed, Covid-19 is not very Chinese sounding!

And Donald is dumb enough!!


This comment was deleted.


He has a point.. USA and Canada is retardwille when it comes to internet mobile connectivity and latency.. took long time for low tech America to even to embrace LTE over PCS and old 2G crap.
China, Japan, Korea, Europe and even African nations are well had in mobile internet maturity speed and usage than US/Canada/Mexico.


Of course it does, stupid.
What does a goat-herder knows about technical stuff?


This comment was deleted.


This Donald J Trump is a MOST disgusting man.
And he is a POTUS?!
A world leader?
UGGHH!


its CCP virus now


Hello CIA koolie troll.
Another new random name generated by your spam program eh?


The COVID-19 is very likely from the US.
The US has a record of irresponsibility in this matter.
The infection could probably had spread by Americans attending the Wuhan International Event in 2019.


10 years ago it has already been revealed that biological weapons must be used against China.

The Freemasons, in other words, the Jews are behind this.

http://projectcamelot (dot) org/anglo_saxon_mission (dot) html


Thank you Bret.
Many commenters in the West thinks the same : that the incidence of virus breakouts in parts of the world other than America and Europe as too coincidental.
The American Empire does not fund its WMD biowarfare labs for no reason if not to use its deadly pathogens on its "enemies".


USA sent fast food to China.
Bret Stephen's fake news.


Silly kid.


Thank you


This comment was deleted.


Kinda demolish your silly mud throwing ain't it, kiddo?


This comment was deleted.


Hello?
Did the virus went in between your ears?
The event took place in 2019 .. in December before the Spring festival on 25 January 2020


Jew conspiracy: Jew warmonger criminal CIA/Mossad declare war against China, China had defeated the Jew warmonger criminal 3 times for the last 150years, Opium war, Korean war and Vietnam war, Coronavirus is the Israel/Jew latest weapon to destroy China.
Vietnam war conspiracy by the Jew: Israel Jew Monsanto manufacture invented Poison WMD Chemical Agent Orange, Jew CIA and Jew Hendry Kissinger use it to poison Vietnam, Cambodia and Laos, 250 millions East Asian women and children bloods are on the Jew warmonger criminal hands, Kissinger is the only Jew criminal been indicted for war crime and rest of the Jew criminal are hiding in US and Apartheid Israel, history remember, crime must pays, you will be hunt down and be execute.


Japanese, China and Asians believed Jew are evil and inhuman.
German throw all inhuman Jew into the gas oven and burn them.


Jew neocon criminal after losing their trade war against China, Jew warmonger criminal invented the latest evil weapon the Coronavirus to destroy and wipe out China and ASEAN.
If the Jew don't learn their history the German taught them, history will repeat, H-2.0 is imminent.


KENG LONG RIGHT ON KEEP NAILIN' IT BUDDY!


To save the peaceful rise of China and world peace, Jew warmonger criminal and little Apartheid Israel Jew must be execute exterminate and wipe of the map at any cost


Damn that was extremely racist.


USA SARS-CoV-2 Strains A Group (COVID-19 Disease) possibly Spring/Autumn 2019?
USA SARS-CoV-2 Strains B Group (COVID-19 Disease) possibly Autumn 2019?
(WA)* USA SARS-CoV-2 Strains C Group (COVID-19 Disease)➧1st detected by China (DEC) USA SARS-CoV-2 Strains D Group (COVID-19 Disease) USA SARS-CoV-2 Strains E Group (COVID-19 Disease) : USA SARS-CoV-2 Strains F Group (COVID-19 Disease) early March 2020 (OH)** : USA SARS-CoV-2 Strains G Group (COVID-19 Disease)?!
what next hidden in USA ?!

❎ what about strange USA vaping epidemic respiratory deaths in Spring 2019 ?!

*WA= Washington State (back retesting 2019 "flu" mis-diagnosed deaths mid-January)

**OH= Ohio State (not yet tested; undecoded) COVID-19 (respiratory) Deaths with mixed in Fever+Fatigue+GI (Gastro-Intestinal) symptoms more commonly associated with past FLU illnesses

by Feb 2020: China noticed China has other late USA SARS-CoV-2 Strains (3 Strains) While USA already had earliest and latest USA SARS-CoV-2 Strains (ALL 5 Strains)

as of late March 2020, USA has most COVID-19 Disease cases than China, or Italy, or Spain

USA still cannot adequately test (the living cases) or retest (past deaths) and with so many possible re-assorted USA SARS-CoV-2 Strains Group ABCDE, ... ... while newer ones in March (OHIO) looking too much like older Influenza (mixed respiratory symptoms with Stomach Flu), could be newer re-assorted Strains F+G (not yet decoded) how will USA differentiate who has what, with or without COVID-19, disease?!

can they even keep track of cause, with so many cases on hand ?!


And there is firm evidence that the deadly "Spanish" flu originated in Kansas.


I don't know where Covid 19 originated from, but I live in the UK and I am increasingly convinced that I contracted this illness in January 2019, over a full year ago.
I became very ill with an illness I had never experienced before, firstly with fever and chills and terrible body aches, then developing to pain in lungs when breathing and a very painful sharp cough.
It lasted about 6 days and I remember a number of times feeling like I would need to call an ambulance it was that awful.
Of course it may have been flu, I can't say for sure but I do not usually catch flu.
In my 35 years I cannot remember anything worse than a bad cold.
This was certainly not that.
At that time we did not know about coronavirus, but the symptoms and severity match its description.
I believe that I caught this from a coworker who had been severely ill about 2 weeks before me, and that I may have given the illness to my father who I live with and was ill similarly shortly after I recovered, so this was all occuring from late December 2018 to February 2019.
At that time I knew nothing of this disease and its contagiousness so took no precautions not to cone into contact with others.
Subsequently since this outbreak of 2020 I have heard a number of other people in the UK saying they believe they had this illness in Autumn 2019 before the Wuhan outbreak and identification.


am.er.ica is a liars nation:

MOON LANDING 😂?
WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION 😂?
TITANIC WAS UNSINKABLE 😂?

WHAT A JOKE THEY EVEN KILLED PLAYED GEN.OC.IDE ON THEIR OWN NATIVES USING VIRUSES / DISEASES 😂 😂 😂


So Asahi TV has offices in China.....Article is fake news.

Offices International Bureaus:

Kansai Regional Office, Nagoya Office, New York Bureau, Washington Bureau, London Bureau, Moscow Bureau, Cairo Bureau, Bangkok Bureau, China General Bureau (Beijing), Seoul Bureau, Paris Bureau (ABC) , Shanghai Bureau (ABC)........


