
Do I still need to wear a mask in Colorado?
The state’s new order, explained.


Colorado Gov.
Jared Polis wears a face mask with the logo of Major League Baseball’s Colorado Rockies as he speaks during a news conference to update the state’s efforts to control the spread of the new coronavirus Friday, May 15, 2020, in the State Capitol in Denver.


Colorado Gov.
Jared Polis on Saturday extended the statewide COVID-19 mask order for another 30 days, but made some key changes that mean face coverings no longer are required in most public settings in nearly half of the state’s counties — a large chunk of land that only includes about 4% of the population.

The changes to the Colorado mask mandate, put in place last July, come as more than 1 million Coloradans now have been vaccinated against the coronavirus, and the state has opened up eligibility for inoculations to everyone over the age of 16.

The new order divides mask rules between counties in Level Green on the state’s color-coded restriction dial — currently 31, representing a population of 238,286 — and counties at all of the higher levels, starting at Level Blue and continuing up through Yellow, Orange, Red and Purple.

The latter group is a geographic area that includes the Denver region and the state’s other main population centers, representing 5.5 million people.

Here’s a closer look at the new mask order:

Where are masks required in Level Green counties?


For people in Level Green counties, the statewide mask order is largely lifted, meaning, for example, that unless the businesses have their own rules, people going into grocery stores, gyms or other retail stores no longer must wear masks.

But there are exceptions, settings where state officials say transmission is still likely — including schools, since children under the age of 16 still cannot get vaccinated.

Here’s where masks still are required in Level Green counties:


Schools, including extracurricular activities


Child care centers


Indoor children’s camps


Public-facing state government facilities


Emergency medical and other health care settings, including hospitals, ambulance service centers, urgent care centers, non-ambulatory surgical structures, clinics, doctors’ offices and non-urgent care medical structures

Personal services, including hair salons, nail salons, esthetician services, body art professionals, etc.


Congregate care facilities, prisons and jails.



Where are masks required in counties at Level Blue and above?


The vast majority of Coloradans live in counites at Level Blue and higher, and they are subject to the same base mask requirement as people in Level Green counties — with one big addition.

Masks must also be worn in any public indoor settings where 10 or more unvaccinated people are present.
And the state says businesses and facilities should "err on the side of assuming that people entering their indoor site are unvaccinated."

Basically, in those counties at Level Blue and higher on the dial, masks still are required to be work in most indoor public places, including grocery stores, gyms, banks and other retailers.

Here’s the full list of where masks are required in counties at Level Blue or higher:


Any public indoor public settings where 10 or more unvaccinated people or people of unknown vaccination status are present


Schools, including extracurricular activities


Child care centers


Indoor children’s camps


Public-facing state government facilities


Emergency medical and other health care settings, including hospitals, ambulance service centers, urgent care centers, non-ambulatory surgical structures, clinics, doctors’ offices and non-urgent care medical structures


Personal services, including hair salons, nail salons, esthetician services, body art professionals, etc.


Congregate care facilities, prisons and jails.



How do I know what level my county is at?


Check the state’s color-coded map at covid19.colorado.gov.

Can local governments or businesses enact stricter mask rules?


Yes, the state health department throughout the pandemic has allowed local municipalities, including cities and counties, to enact tougher health rules to curb the spread of COVID-19.

Denver’s mayor already has said he’ll keep the city’s mask order in place through at least early May regardless of what the state does.
San Juan Basin Public Health, which covers Archuleta and La Plata counties, issued a more restrictive mask mandate last week that requires face coverings in all public indoor settings unless everyone present is fully vaccinated.

On Monday, Jefferson County amended its order — which requires masks be worn when in indoor public spaces and 6 feet of social distancing can’t be maintained — to no longer require face coverings be worn in outdoor public spaces.

Boulder County also updated its order to continue requiring masks for everyone older than 10 in indoor public spaces.
And while masks are not required outdoors in the county, they are recommended when 6 feet of distancing is not possible, officials said.

Finally, businesses remain free to require their customers wear masks even if state or local regulations don’t mandate them.

Where and in what situations are masks not required?


Colorado’s statewide order does not require mask usage outdoors, and has the following additional exceptions:


If you are hearing impaired or otherwise disabled or are communicating with someone who is hearing impaired or otherwise disabled and where the ability to see the mouth is essential to communication


When you are seated at a food service establishment


When you are exercising alone or with others from your household and a face covering would interfere with the activity


When you are receiving a personal service where the temporary removal of the face-covering is necessary to perform the service


When you are entering a business or receive services and are asked to temporarily remove a face covering for identification purposes


When you are actively engaged in a public safety role, such as law enforcement officers, firefighters or emergency medical personnel


When you are officiating or participating in a life rite or religious service where the temporary removal of a face covering is necessary to complete or participate in the service


When are you giving a speech for broadcast or to an audience



When does the current mask order expire and will it be extended?


The modified order runs through May 2, and state officials say the governor will review the matter with his legal team and public health experts before deciding to renew it again, modify it or let it expire entirely.
By that point, state officials are expecting to have turned over most decision-making on COVID-19 public health rules to local authorities.


