
Fern Britton questions if Covid is a ‘conspiracy to control population’ as she admits she’s ‘not coping’


FERN Britton questions if Covid is a "conspiracy to control the population" as she admits she’s "not coping".

The presenter, 64, she believes "Covid is a real and dangerous virus" as she opened up a discussion on conspiracy theories around the pandemic.

5

Fern Britton said she’s "not coping" while talking to followers


Speaking to her followers on Twitter, Fern said: "I believe Covid is a real and dangerous virus running amok amongst the worlds population and ruining the worlds [sic.]
economy.

"However, if this is all a con to control us, what is the end game?
This is an authentic question."

The former This Morning presenters fans mostly agreed there wasn’t a conspiracy.

One person said: "There isn’t is there, this is a virus Microbe not a global conspiracy.
We both know that and as painful as it is we have to keep chasing down anyone says otherwise, your question there is an intelligent way of doing it, thanks!
(Shamelessly steals idea Smiling face with open mouth and tightly-closed eyes)"

Twitter 5

The star questioned the Covid conspiracy theories


5

Fern shares the sentiment with Brits across the country


Another added: "This is exactly what I keep saying!
What is the benefit to the whole world pretending there’s a virus, people losing their livelihoods, etc.
Funny they can never answer that when I ask.
Its totally bonkers!"

However, one person said: "Oh god don’t say that.
I’m not coping as it is."

To which Fern replied: "Oh Grant.
Me neither x"

The best-selling author has been living in Cornwall since she split with her husband Phil Vickery in January after 20 years.

5

Fern split with Phil Vickery last year


The mum-of-four – who was previously married to TV exec Clive Jones – admitted in November that she misses the company of a man – but has decided she doesn’t want another partner in her life.

She told The Mirror: "That’s not to say I don’t miss being married, because I have been married to two incredible husbands for over 30 years, so I have been married for a very long time – two very interesting men who survived being married to me.

"It is difficult and it is painful but let’s skip over that… I am not looking for anybody else."

Ferne also admitted she enjoys having "autonomy" over her time and "what I want to do", adding that she plans to travel the world at 70.

Meanwhile, Phil has exchanged a string of messages with Yorkshire Dales sheep farmer Alison O’Neill.


