
WHO admits Wuhan may not be virus origin, offsetting rumor


everyone knows the virus came from USA just think about, last year's influenza killed more ppl than ever, vaping caused death?
c'mon we all know that was covid19.
what happened to vaping caused death now?
ppl just stopped vaping all the sudden?
remember H1N1?
when did we hear about it?
when it was already out of control, where was it originated from?
California.
many ppl did plasma testing, and around 25% are immune from covid19, that means?
it was started long time ago.
from where??
Fort Detrick - Biolab in the state


these chinese might have killed almost all doctors who had knowledge about the virus origin.


You avoid evidence of course.
what a nonsensical biased suggestion.


This comment was deleted.


Trust you to be the usual doomsayer.
The USA is the liar and you know it.


I don't see you pushing for examining reports about unknown pneumonia deaths in US in mid 2019, in elderly home.
Where around 50 people had been with severe pneumonia and few died.
Why don't you call out US for not providing with more info and desire to be transparent?
And who are you trusting?
Trump?
CDC "Don't wear masks they are useless - Wear masks we lied because we didn't have enough of them"?


This comment was deleted.


USA broke a number of countries economy in the past 40 years.
Middle East, Balkans, South America, some of eastern countries.
Buried themselves and many other countries in enormous debt, wars etc...
Btw, every war that USA started in the last 30-40 years is based on FALSE claims/evidence.
Iraq, Afghanistan, Syria, Lybia.
Lies about ethnic cleansing on Kosovo, which independent Sweden investigators uncovered it was a lie etc... USA did set BAD example on how to behave during this pandemic, which other countries blindly followed.
And look at the situation in those countries now.
Disgrace!
Additionally, there is no evidence that covid started in China.
Evidence is that it was first discovered/identified in WuHan.
We have to wait for more evidence.
Which western countries are not eager for, which is obvious.
We should all work together, like Asia did.
Look at the situation in Asia and compare it to the rest of the world.
Amount of lies and disinformation coming out of USA MSM is appalling.
And now they reap what they sow.
And you talk about "enemy"?
Where the hell did you get that info that China is an "enemy"?
Of which country?
Which country China attacked in the last 40 years?
None!


Well said and with good common sense .I do get the sense though, that Shirin Gohel is a bot.


You're absolutely correct.


i am pretty sure you had no idea about those.
you are too busy getting brain washed by the main stream media.
"It's over for china, we know the truth"?
how did you find out the truth?
from mainstream media?
CNN?
FOX?
from trump?
sigh.
yes, china reported it first, but doesn't mean it was originated there.
we need to look at this year's influenza and vaping caused death in 2019.
wonder why you dont' hear vaping caused death anymore?


