
Coronavirus Cure Found #BlackExcellence



Master race?







Ragobeer said

Chinese Doctor Says African Skin Resists Coronavirus view image view image A young Cameronain student in China identified as Senou, recently infected with Coronavirus was released from hospital this morning cured of the virus, Afriupdate reports.
Doctors seeking for a cure to treat the dreadful virus were amazed to see Senou still alive and fit even after contacting the virus which has claimed thousands of lives since it broke out in Wuhan couple of weeks ago.
The Chinese doctors confirmed that Senou stayed alive because of his blood genetic composition which is mainly found in the genetic composition of subsaharan Africans.
The Chinese doctors also said that he remained alive because he has black skin, the antibodies of a black are 3 times stronger, powerful and resistant compare to that of white.
Zanomoya Mditshwa an African doctor shared his opinion saying black man is indestructible.
"Caucasians is always at war with our black skin because they know our melanin is our defense against all that they throw at us.
This proves yet again that the black man is indestructible, our bodies are made of the same substances that make up this Earth because we are owners of this universe they will never wipe us off, history has already proved that."
he said.
Source: afriupdate.com/africa/chinese-doctors-reveals-why-african-skin-resists-coronavirus/ BBC also confirmed the kid survived.
So there you have it...the cure for Coronavirus is having African skin...natural selection a bi*ch sometimes Good luck everybody else they acting like he is the first person to survive it.




Redbones and High yella Negroes looking like




Melanin worth more than silver, gold, diamonds




view video




Let’s see how many people believe everything they read




How is this a cure




This is pretty hard to believe.




He wasn’t immune to the virus he just survived it.
He still got sick, the virus won’t k*ll everybody it infects.




"God Painted me BLACK Thanks for that" - NAS




your time is bout to come full circle "black" people




funny how no one noticed that we're the same as Superman.... Skin absorbs UV rays and converts it into strength and energy Antibodies that make us immune to a lot of bacteria and viruses We're really fast and we jump high... idk I ran out after the first two




The k*ll rate like 3% and the vast majority of thay are old ppl and already sick ppl.
Granted ive yet to hear of a brother being k*lled by it but cut it out dont jinx us n*gga



Yooooo!!!
sh*t actually is making sense if this can be confirmed.
Yall remember how n*ggas was disappearing and they was organ harvesting a while ago??
ITS THE MELANIN THEY WAS AFTER FOR THE VACCINE.



view image :jayandbeyblackexcellence:




'18 #17




black ignorance wins again.
heres the thing.
ignorance is bliss.
so it always works.
cure all.




There is no cure.
They expect it to take as little as 4 months to over a year to figure it out







Dark Cobra said

Melanin worth more than silver, gold, diamonds




$445 per gram




view image




Did anyone read the article posted.
Definitely didn’t say what OP said with his statement.




I can see them getting big mad and wanting to undo their 400+ yrs contract




Snopes and other places already proved this false days ago.. delete this bullsh*t before more retards start believing they are immune



'17


