
Why am I not getting the COVID-19 coronavirus?


The word "weaker" could refer either to its contagiousness (how often people get it) or to its morbidity rate (how often it makes people who get it very sick or kills them.)

All viruses mutate into different strains.
No single strain of SARS-CoV-2 can possibly get weaker in either sense.
But there is some evidence that a less lethal strain called Delta-382 has emerged.
Scientists think they found another coronavirus mutation – but this one is good news

Is this really good news?
Maybe.
If a less lethal strain confers immunity to the more lethal strains, it’s good.
But if it’s a lot more infectiou


Whoever you heard say that, mark them as unreliable sources of information.

Sometimes viruses do get weaker, but there has been no sign that this one is doing so yet, in fact it is showing signs of getting stronger.

The effect, in terms of fatality rate, has decreased, not because the virus is getting weaker but because we are learning more about it and have now several ways to treat some of its worst aspects.

However those treatments are limited and take a lot of resources, which means where there are lots of cases the health services will not be able to provide them to everyone.
That is why it


The amount of unintentional or just outright cruelty that came from unnecessarily hardcore restrictions deserves a few long chapters in the history of this pandemic.
If I have to write that book myself, I will.
Mental breakdown, anxiety, loneliness and depression mostly happen through no fault of the people suffering from it.
And yes, it’s a cruel side-effect of well-meaning policies.
Brought you by politicians and doctors who never really thought lockdown through, because it really hadn’t been done before except by an authoritarian government in Wuhan.


Q: How dangerous is the coronavirus (COVID-19)?

A: Very.

[ This answer was originally posted Jan 30, 2020 ]

[18 Mar update: With their own outbreak appearing to be under control, the Chinese government is engaging in a massive disinformation campaign, to deflect attention from the fact that THEIR negligence lead to the virus, via poor food hygiene standards, and then made it MUCH worse by hiding it for 2 months (Nov 2109 thru early Jan 2019).
This article outlines some of those issues, and has links to a variety of documenting sources.
China is not at blame for the US’s incompetent response: the



Hi!
Unlike a lot of people you’re hearing from on here, I have actually tested positive for Covid-19.
I was most likely exposed on March 3rd, became ill about a week later, and just received my official test results today, March 17th.

Coronavirus feels like the most devastating flu I have ever had.
Intense bouts of fever, alternating with the kind of chills that, even with three sweaters on, make your teeth chatter uncontrollably.
I’m "lucky", relatively speaking, because my temperature never went higher than 102 degrees Fahrenheit, but even then, it felt like my body was burning up.
Plus, a ge


Wow, there is some mind-boggling ignorance going on in this thread.

So let's have a basic lesson in science:

1.Diseases stimulate the body to create antibodies.
Vaccines do exactly the same thing, without making you sick.
Getting a disease and then getting the vaccine won't hurt you, it's usually just pointless, a waste of medicine and money.
But with some diseases, like rabies and tetanus, you are given the vaccine after being infected, to help you fight it faster, because time matters.

Vaccines STRENGTHEN the immune response.
That is their purpose.
They do not weaken it.

2.There are two types of


No.
There are a few potential scenarios I can think of here:

Scenario 1 - You got lucky.
Either they didn't expose you to enough of the virus to cause an infection, they themselves caught it after you left each other's company, or, if this was diagnosed via an antibody test, then it's possible they didn't have the virus when you saw them.

Scenario 2 - You didn't get lucky.
You have the virus, you just aren't showing symptoms.
Could be you will soon, could be you never do, but thinking you're immune will likely lead you to unwittingly infect others.

Scenario 3 - You already had the virus without r


Covid-19 Vaccine:


COVID-19 vaccine is finally here and, you can say the wait is over.
No, matter how much we cover our faces and wash hands frequently, we need a vaccine to fight this pandemic.
But wait, do you know about the results, side effects, and precautions of the most awaited vaccines?

The trials of the vaccine have already started.
But, before taking a vaccine, one should know everything about it.
The first question people have – is the vaccine safe?

Let’s know about the vaccine in detail.

Is the COVID-19 Vaccine Safe?


The primary concern is whether it is safe to take the COVID-19 vaccine


