
Peruvian court rules that Bill Gates, George Soros and Rockefeller family “created” coronavirus pandemic


bravo peru now lets hunt these evil entities down and lock them away.


The Covid Vaccine they are pushing is a 2 step Binary BioWeapon against humanity.
So evil that only the devil could come up with something like this.


I think that they are correct -- but I think that the CCP and WEF are a big part of this evil, too.


If the Peruvian court ruled that Gates, Soros and the Rockefeller family "created" the Covid-19 virus why insist on calling it the Wuhan Virus?
is the author an anti-China dotard?


cant share on facebook as they have recorded it as abusive !
WTF !


Could we see more on this case?
We know what Francis Boyle others have documented, and this is bigger than just those men, though their money...and that of other powerful wealthy men, .... drives it.
Including that of communist European fascist political elites.
We'd like to see an article detailing the evidences used to reach that judgment.
Thank you.


My gut tells me that the Vatican Jesuits are involved in this too.


This reminds me of when the Hague tried to made charges against Bush and Cheney.


But, but Bill Gates of Hell is just a "nice" guy!
Really.
Fauxi too!


ik, r?
So was Ted Bundy.


I think Africans we must take Action against those Satanist


Those guys are becoming dangerous to the whole World.


God bless them!
Hope they believe in swift justice.
Do we have a extradition treaty with them


I trust court verdicts, that's why I know that OJ was innocent.


different cases ...different outcomes... geophysics, focus on covid 2021.. the Peruvian judges got it right if story is true


Whether you believe OJ was guilty or innocent, you have to consider these facts.

News about the case aired during the run-up to that trial, by the sources that today we justifiably call fake news, put a great amount of effort in a painting a picture of "evidence" which was not the same evidence that was presented in the trial.

And they would have on air, evaluations of their effectiveness by supposedly interviewing "random people" from the general public, just like in an episode of People’s Court, the Show that falsely claimed "this is real case in a real courtroom," when the only thing real about it was they purchased or leased a court house to use as the set, that was no longer being used because it was replaced by new courthouse.

The actors, uh i mean people from the "general public," dutifully responded "well you just know he’s guilty."
...just like in one of thos bizzare episode of "People’s court.

Have you ever wondered why the fake cops in the show called "Cops," never had any basic regulations or rules they had to abide by?
Pretty much they could just do as they please, because if they confront some citizen, that citizen is obviously a crook who deserves it.
Right?
Or why people’s court had none either, and was all based on feelings, not on law?
It was because these were brainwashing programs, and fakenews employed their methods for their OJ productions.

The only real tangible evidence in the actual trial was the dna evidence from blood samples, yet there was a huge problem with that, that was aired in court by the defense lawyers, that the prosecution and state’s witnesses was unable to mount a plausible defense to recover from that damage that was done.

That problem was the systematic mishandling of the dna samples at every stage, and one of the key mishandlers who had handled each and every sample, was proven in court to have grossly mishandled them, and proven to be one of a group of cops on that force who were members of a kkk offshoot, and who weirdly had unofficial unmarked vials of blood in his possession.

If the jurors had found him guilty based on the actual courtroom evidence or if they considered any of the television production evidence as being viable, then any innocent person could just as easlily be found guilty by this method, but they followed the classic juror instructions to the letter, and they had reasonable doubt.
When there is any reasonable doubt, not guilty is always the correct verdict.

Following that trial, classic juror instructions became under fire, by propagandists claiming it was outdated among many other slams to it.
In the trial (and others) the prosecution actually tried to change it’s definition, trying to weaken it, undermine it, tried to cast doubt on what can be considered "reasonable."

It is designed to always protect the innocent from being charged with a crime, and although not perfect, as reaching 100% perfection is impossible, it can and does sometimes lead to a guilty person being set free.
Nobody should be willing to give that up, for any reason, it protects all of us.

Thank God, thinking someone is guilty, or feeling like someone is guilty, or "well i just know he’s guilty" are not one of the things that a juror is supposed to consider, the only thing they are supposed to consider is was that person solidly proven, beyond any shadow of doubt, to be guilty.


You have some good points, but I always said (and you used the very phrase I always refer to at the end of your discourse) that there is a big, big difference between ‘beyond a reasonable doubt’, and ‘beyond a shadow of a doubt’.
One is reasonable based on evidence, the other assumes certainty...which as you pointed out (but then negated at the end), is impossible.
It was quite reasonable to conclude the man was guilty based on the evidence presented, but someone on the jury convinced the others that it was not certain that he committed the crime...therefore they had to acquit.
In my view...no, they didn’t.


Extradition Now !!!


I'm going to estimate less than a month before the American People start stacking bodies.
Either the US Military stands by their OATH to DEFEND the CONSTITUTION, or IT IS OUR DUTY TO DO SO.
Regardless of what ANYONE ANYWHERE thinks, this will happen.


IT CERTAINLY IS WHAT WOULD LIKELY BE NEEDED ONE MILLION AMERICANS A DAY BEING MURDERED BY THE VAC MANDATES SOON TO BE FORCED SADLY I DONT SEE ANYONE STANDING BY THE OATHS FOR ANYTHING ANYMORE


The word I got is that the Pentagon is in control now and will take action around April 25/26 at the latest' I am waiting eagerly for the Pentagon to take action.


WHERE DID YOU GET THE INFO/ IS IT TRUE AND VERIFYABLE ?
AND WHY WAIT 100 MILLION AMERICAN DEAD BY THEN WHAT WILL THEY TAKE OVER A DECIMATED COUNTRY?
ARE THEY ALL FOR THIS AS WELL ?


I hope so.
It is certainly overdue.


Hang them.


I'll bring the rope.


Hang em.
No trial


have you all noticed the nice people trying to kill you are all jewish for some reason?
nah - go back to sleep zzzzzzz


There are many highly " successful" People that are Jewish.
If they were PRACTICING Judaism I assure you they would be nowhere near this type of behavior.
Jewish people are compassionate humans.
Stop spreading hate and work on a common goal to make things better.


Male bovine excrement !!!


Punish the world all to get rid of Donald Trump create the pandemic create vote by mail create phony ballots to give the dumbest person ever to run 80 million votes


Hi Luna I’m sure you will find that the powers behind the virus are a lot more interested in eliminating cash than eliminating Trump.
Why is the virus story still around AFTER Trump left the Whitehouse?
Biden insists we wear masks for a good 100 days.
Funny thing to do 🤔


Great news!
Although they will probably send one of his clones to the hanging...


BILL GATES IS A CLONE or a DOUBLE as the REAL bill and MELINDA GATES were HANGED IN 2013 IN INDIA for the POLIO VACCINE that were given to the CHILDREN in the villages..which PARALYSED THEM..!!!!!


CAN YOU SHOW SOME PROOF OF THIS OR ANYTHING VERIFYABLE ?


Sounds like Peru is a great country to move to!


Lets hope those judges don't all commit suicide with a shotgun to the back of the head.
They need protection.


Hi Mark.
Haven’t been there but I’d love to.
And, Paddington Bear comes from Peru and he would make a far finer Prime Minister than Boris Johnson 🐻


Great!!
Let's get them arrested, tried for the good of humanity!
Hat's off to Peru for being real!!


Yeah, like they're going to show up for their "court date."
Just more theater as they're "tried" in absentia.
Until and unless they're rounded up and in custody, no court proceeding means a thing.


It exposes the truth and that is better than nothing.


