
The “patented” and “created by the French” coronavirus?
This viral video tells anything



On social networks, a new conspiratorial theory which circulates massively affirms that the coronavirus was created "in laboratory" and "patented".
This is not the case and the video which disseminates this message is based on rumors and the misunderstanding of a document.
Wednesday, the Pasteur Institute had to deny.

Throughout the sequence, the videographer addresses Internet users by promising them new revelations and swearing that his video is not "pipeau".
© Screenshot


Again, this is content circulating virally, about the coronavirus epidemic.
It is a long video of more than 20 minutes, originally posted on Facebook Tuesday afternoon and exchanged via Messenger and WhatsApp, which we also found on the YouTube video platform and on Twitter.
In this video, a man explains that "

the situation is serious

"and suggests the government is lying about the Covid-19 epidemic, a virus "

patented

"And"

invented

", a "

biochemical attack

","

created by the French and the Pasteur Institute

"He also quotes researchers from the CNRS and Inserm.

On Facebook, in less than 24 hours, the video has been shared at least 96,000 times and has more than 15,000 likes.
It has also spread to groups of "yellow vests".
It has also been viewed at least 100,000 times via YouTube posts.
On Twitter, it has also been reposted dozens of times by social network users who distribute screenshots documents supposed to attest this "truth".

The video is available for free access on Facebook and has been shared on other accounts.
/ Screenshot


In reality, this video spreads false information, discloses conspiracy theories.

A denial by the Institut Pasteur


The video has gone so viral that Institut Pasteur had to issue a press release Wednesday to deny all advanced pseudo-information : "

This conspiratorial video is completely false.
The Institut Pasteur did not invent COVID-19 or the virus at its origin, Sars-CoV-2.
The Institut Pasteur invented a vaccine candidate in 2004 against a previous coronavirus, called SARS-CoV- 1

".

"All the information, you can verify it"


What is in this video?
Throughout the sequence, the videographer addresses Internet users by promising them new revelations.
He assures that his video is not "

pipe

"And that he is there"

to tell what’s going on

":


"

We will show you by A B how the virus was created, who created it, why

";


"

We will do it fairly quickly otherwise it would take three hours

";


"

All the information you can verify, it’s not an Illuminati theory

";


"

Just type the patent number into Google

";


"

I give you everything in hand, you can read everything by yourself

".



It is also claimed that "

team

"From"

several people

"worked on these revelations, without anyone being able to know more.

Theory based on misunderstanding of a document


The 20 minutes of video therefore provide an analysis based on a misunderstanding of a document which is however completely authentic, a European patent specification ("EP 1 694 829 B1") easily downloadable in PDF.
It concerns the discovery of another strain of coronavirus, which dates back to the early 2000s.


This patent is therefore not proof of the creation of a virus.



According to a press release from the Institut Pasteur, the patent concerns SARS-CoV-1 (responsible for the so-called SARS disease in 2002-2003), which is very different from SARS-CoV-2 (responsible for the so-called Covid disease in 2019-2020): "

The 2004 patent describes the discovery of the virus and then the invention of a vaccine strategy against this virus, and NOT the invention of the virus itself.

"This" vaccine candidate "has never been tested in humans because the epidemic was over when it was available for testing.

"

The Institute’s mission is to work on all emerging viruses, in particular coronaviruses and there are several types of coronaviruses.

", recalls the press release.


The "inventors" are in fact the owners of the patent



The author of the video over-interprets the term "inventor" which is used to designate the owners of the patent, and not the inventors of a potential virus.
In addition, if these patents are real, they attest to the discovery of a virus but not to its conception.


It cannot be said that the virus escaped from a P4 laboratory located in Wuhan, as the video claims



The Wuhan Institute of Virology has had a very high security laboratory since 2017.
But this rumor, which has spread almost since the beginning of the epidemic, is unverifiable as demonstrated by the specialized magazine Sciences et futur or 20 minutes.


Nothing proves that the virus is a creation of the man and more precisely of the French



The author of the video notably points the finger at the husband of the former Minister of Health.
He relies for this on the fact that Yves Lévy (CEO of Inserm, husband of Agnes Buzyn) and the Prime Minister of the time Bernard Cazeneuve, were present in Wuhan for the inauguration of this center in 2017 If their presence is a fact and the Franco-Chinese collaboration on this subject is very real, the object of this laboratory remains "

the fight against emerging infectious diseases

"And research around"

highly pathogenic situations

".


The name of the virus should not be confused with the name of the disease it causes.



For the author of the video, the "name changes of the virus" aim to confuse the tracks.
Sras-Cov2, 2019-Ncov, Covid-19 … The name of the virus is noted SARS-CoV-2, but is still frequently designated by "2019-nCoV".
In contrast, Covid-19 is the name given by the World Health Organization to the disease caused by this seventh strain of human coronavirus.
It should also be understood that "coronavirus" is a family of viruses.

This theory (and its completely outlandish arguments), had already been disabled for several weeks.
The AFP fact-checking cell had, for example, proved that the coronavirus detected in China had not been created in the laboratory and then patented, which the author of the video is careful not to specify.

The "argumentative mille-feuille" technique


"

Without probably being aware of it, the video mixes the technique of argumentative mille-feuille

"notes the Twitter account of Conspiracy Watch, an observatory of conspiracy and conspiracy theories.

All this in the service of a conspiratorial argument as thick as caricatural: the virus would have been manufactured, it would not be a "new" virus, everything would be the product of a vast manipulation of public opinion "for the cash".
The beneficiary ?
The Pasteur Institute!
pic.twitter.com/NNgJ8Flap7 – Conspiracy Watch (@conspiration) March 18, 2020


The video indeed alternates between presentation of pseudo-evidence and passages which pull the rope of fear : Between "

the spring of indignation (‘We are taken for imbeciles’)

"And"

classically conspiratorial rhetoric (‘Who benefits from the crime?
’; ‘open your eyes’ …)

"Conspiracy Watch notes.

A surfer close to the "yellow vests" behind the video


Going back to the different Facebook shares, it appears that this video was initially posted by the account of a certain "Cat Antonio (Medusa)", whose original nickname is "john.labite.9", possibly Italian to believe its banner in the colors green, white, red.

On his profile, part of which is open, we find traces of the 22-minute video.
The photographs and other videos posted on this account correspond to the face of the man who appears in the video.
This Facebook user seems to live in Île-de-France, he has in any case visibly participated actively in the movement of "yellow vests" by demonstrating several times in Paris.

Related


