
Yes, Colloidal Silver Kills All Viruses












Yes, Colloidal Silver Kills All Viruses

An antiviral agent is provided which is effective in treating viruses and can be formed into various products whose efficacy sustainability is promising.
In particular, the present invention provides an antiviral agent which is effective in treating all viruses, comprising a silver ion carrier; a product capable of inactivating a virus, comprising the same; and a method of inactivating a virus.

https://patents.google.com/patent/EP1676582A1/en

Since the killer Chinese coronavirus is said to be relatively new, having only recently mutated from snakes, bats and mice to the point it could infect humans, there's quite literally zero scientific info as to whether colloidal silver (or anything else, for that matter) would work against it.

But…colloidal silver has been known to work against a number of other deadly viruses.
So let's take a look at what the existing literature says:

According to Herbert Slavin, M.D., founder and director of the Institute of Advanced Medicine, Lauderhill, Florida:

"…A study at the University of Arizona recently showed ionic silver to be effective against the coronavirus that researchers use as the surrogate for SARS."

SARS stands for Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome.
The coronavirus behind SARS produces the same kind of potentially deadly respiratory syndrome as caused by the new Chinese coronavirus.
According to a Business Wire article about the study:

"The study tested various ionic silver and copper levels to determine if they were effective against the human coronavirus strain 229E, a strain commonly used as a surrogate for the SARS virus in laboratory research.

The research demonstrated significant reductions of the virus within 1 hour (90 percent) and reduced virus levels to below the detection limit following 24 hours of exposure (99.99 percent)."

Wow.
In this study, the researchers saw a 90% reduction in virus levels within the first hour, and a 99.99% reduction within 24 hours.

Sovereign Silver Hydrosol 10 ppm Dropper, 8 Oz

Bio-Active Silver Hydrosol?
Immune Support To support your immune system for all of its needs, choose Sovereign Silver?
Bio-Active Silver Hydrosol?
- the #1 selling silver supplements in America.
It has a unique combination of 5 attributes no other manufacturer can match: Actively Charged (Bio-Active) As corroborated by a university study, Sovereign Silver?
contains 96% actively charged silver particles (positively charge [Ag+] silver ions), which renders it at least 34 times more powerful than other brands.
Easily Absorbed Sovereign Silver's?
unprecedented average particle size of 0.0008 microns, or 0.8 nanometers (validated by Transmission Electron Microscopy), allows for easy utilization by - and excretion from - the cells and body.
Less Is More The ultra-small particle size also results in a greater silver surface area.
That's why even with a low concentration of 10 ppm (parts per million), Sovereign Silver?
is still much more effective than brands that contain up to 500 ppm!
Perfectly Safe Sovereign Silver?
is formulated to be safe for the whole family when used as directed.
Taken 7 times a day for 70 yeast, Sovereign Silver?
still falls below the EPA daily Oral Silver Reference Dose (RfD).
99.999% Pure Sovereign Silver has only 2 ingredients: silver and pharmaceutical-grade purified water.
It does not contain added silver compounds (silver salts or proteins) that render other silver products ineffective and possibly dangerous.
In addition, to maintain product purity and integrity, it is packaged in non-leaching glass bottles.
Why Bio-Active Silver Hydrosol?
over any other form of silver?
Over the past 2 decades, the term "colloidal silver" has been dramatically polluted by manufacturers that produce (knowingly or unknowingly) silver products contaminated by the presence of salts, proteins, compounds, stabilizers, and oxidation - all of which serve to degrade and diminish the bio-activity of the silver.
A Bio-Active Silver Hydrosol?
represents the ultimate refinement and purity of the colloidal silver category.
It is the suspension of a high content (96%) of positively charged silver ions (Ag+) in only pharmaceutical-grade purified water.
This is not to be confused with ionic silver, an inferior form of neutral silver/silver salt that is in solution (dissolved) rather than in a colloidal suspension.
The positively charged silver ions (cations) in Bio-Active Silver Hydrosol?
remain in suspension, maintaining their fully active state for use within the body.
Directions Adults: 1 teaspoon, hold under tongue for 30 seconds, then swallow.Children 4 years and older: teaspoon.
Guidelines Maintenance: Once daily.
Immune-Building: 3 times daily.
Long-Term Immune Support: 5 times daily.
Short-Term Immune Support: 7 times daily.
Disclaimer These statements have not been evaluated by the FDA.
These products are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any disease.

Colloidal silver kills all viruses!

Order Your bottle from Walmart!

VUE WEBSITE


