
Is there a curfew in south Beach?


Hi there

I am due to arrive in Miami from the UK on the evening of Sat 29th Oct and like others on this site, I'm struggling to find information about the situation in South Beach.

Can anyone let me know if there is still a curfew?
Are the bars and restaurants open yet?
and are the power and water supplies back on?
We are staying at the Park Central.

We still have an opportunity to cancel or fly straight through to Puerto Rico, so any advice would be much appreciated.

Many thanks




1.
Re: Is there a curfew in south Beach?

15 years ago

Save

http://www2.wsvn.com/news/articles/extra/MIA9876/

Curfew information in the link.


I, too, am scheduled to arrive Sat 10/29 for the weekend.
I just spoke to my hotel and was told that the curfew is different for SoBe than for downtown.
While downtown is at 8pm, SoBe is either 10 or 11pm.


Yes, there is a curfew for all of Miami-Dade County still in effect at 20:00 each night.
However, 70% of the buildings in South Beach have power and the restaurants were running until at least 23:00 last night.
Police officers are on patrol but they were not stopping anybody on Lincoln Road last night after the curfew, probably because power is on there.

Miami International Airport is running so you will be able to fly; things are a bit chaotic here, though, and certainly not anywhere close to normal.


Many thanks Ethel, that is very helpful - think that's made my mind up to stick with the plan and take the flight, particularly as Key West will be opening to visitiors again next Monday.


We arrived in South Beach on Wednesday fearing the worst, and were amazed how normal everything seems.
South Beach seems to have escaped much of the power shortage affecting the rest of South Florida, and most shops and restaurants seem to be open.
There are plenty of boarded up windows and tree branches piled up, and long lines for gas so I hope you're not driving here!

As for the curfew, we heard last night that it has now been extended to midnight here - we came back from dinner to our hotel around 10pm and there were loads of people still about.
Don't worry, you will have a great time and I'm sure the tourist economy will appreciate your dollars.


6.
Re: Is there a curfew in south Beach?

15 years ago

Save

Curfew lifted as of today.


