
What type of places are masks required in Croatia under the COVID-19 rules?


The main reason is fear, a strong fear that triggered the self-preservation instincts of Greek society.
As a Greek saying goes, "o fovos fylaei ta erma", fear is the best guardian of poor [sheep].

When Greece got its first case, a recent arrival from Milan, on February 26th, it only took the Greek government one day to cancel all carnival festivities in the country.


Source: Current state of Covid-19 outbreak in Greece and timeline of key containment - NPHO

As Italy, a country often seen as Greece's richer cousin started suffering a horrendous outbreak of cases and deaths, most Greek citizens and


Yes, I lost my grandfather to COVID-19 on 1st August, 2020.

He was tested for the virus on 19th July after having a week of symptoms like fever, disorientation, breathing difficulty.
The Doctor first said that it was a Viral.
My father who took my grandfather to the hospital also started showing symptoms like fever, loss of taste and smell.

As soon as he tested positive for the virus, he was shifted to a hospital ICU ward.
(Which was not easy to get, considering the number of cases in the city I live in)

According to his chest X-Ray report, there was a considerable amount of fluid accumulated in h


That depends on what laws he broke since state officials depending on who they are as well as local officials do have the authority to enforce mandates on the wearing of masks and if someone breaks them then they can be fined.

Such mandates are perfectly reasonable and do not violate the Constitution in any way, shape or form as long as they are done in a way that does not discriminate against people.

I read up on the ordinance just to see what it says.

It says masks are required to be worn inside a building or if on public transportation except for those that are under 6 years old, seated in a r


If a mask works, why can't everyone go back to work and wear a mask?

Because not everyone gets a mask.
Is the government going to issue you one every day?
Because most people work 9–5 weekday jobs, and some work on weekends.
At least having the hospitals hogging all the PPEs and a lockdown means only THAT amount of people get them per day.
Now imagine a million fold, per day.

If they don’t issue them, where can you buy them?
Amazon doesn’t even allow you to buy remotely relate products like cleaning wipes or disinfectant spray since it’s prioritized to God-knows-where.
If I am ordered back to wo


Failure to pay a fine?
I am not sure what law or regulation is involved but failure to pay or formally contest any fine triggers a cascade of increasingly more expensive legal problems here.
You location only a local legal expert and attorney can research this for you.

For example I suspect the lack of a mask left you exposed to a $200 ticket for violating stay-at-home orders in your state.
That is a state law not a local regulation….
hmmmmm….. pay it.

I would not ignore the citation, pay it.
I might contest it but the ‘bond’ to contest it might be more than the ticket.

This is not a civil rights


My brother in law, originally from Thessaloniki, studied and worked in England for years.
When he met my sister in London she told him then, at age 29, to go serve the country, which he actually did because she wouldn’t consider him "fit" for her (lol).
Being in love with sister, he promised he would.
He took a sabbatical and served for six months.
He absolutely loved the experience and the people.
He actually wanted to feel more of a "boot camp" life but due to his age, the sergeant was very kind to him.
Before serving the country, he entered from FYROM by car and managed to go on holidays to


With the Greek School Year Having Started, the Greek Officials and Education Department provided children masks for the year.
The only thing is that they royally messed up…

I mean they’ll protect your eyes from covid, and they’ll also have your teacher wondering what your name is…


The Reason for the Royal Mess Up…

According to the specifications, the three sizes of masks are as follows…

one very small for the children of kindergarten age,

one slightly larger for elementary school students,

and a larger one for high school and teachers.

However, the dimensions got lost between the government and the c


The Acropolis of Athens and its monuments are universal symbols of the classical spirit and civilization and form the greatest architectural and artistic complex bequeathed by Greek Antiquity to the world.
In the second half of the fifth century bc, Athens, following the victory against the Persians and the establishment of democracy, took a leading position amongst the other city-states of the ancient world.
In the age that followed, as thought and art flourished, an exceptional group of artists put into effect the ambitious plans of Athenian statesman Pericles and, under the inspired guidanc


Why won’t you wear the mask?
Do you have a documented medical condition that prevents your air intake?
If not, do you refuse on political grounds?

The mask isn’t to protect you from COVID, it’s to keep you from spreading it to others if you do get it.
Most positives are asymptomatic, meaning you could have it and be spreading it right now by not wearing a mask.
Scientists estimate that coronavirus hangs in the air, has about 23 feet of distance when you speak, more if you cough, laugh, or sneeze.

So I guess what I’m asking is, do you feel the need to potentially kill thousands of people because


