
No, this 2015 Italian TV news does not prove that the Covid-19 was created in the laboratory



A sample for a screening test in Nice, April 2.
–

SYSPEO / SIPA




In 2015, the Leonardo program, broadcast on RAI, devoted a report to an experiment carried out in a laboratory.


The experiment involved a virus different from Covid-19.


This verification request was sent to us by a reader.



Why does a report broadcast in 2015 on Italian television resurface on YouTube?
Posted on March 27 on a French-language channel with the title "A coronavirus created in the laboratory", it has accumulated nearly 110,000 views since.

The report deals with an experiment carried out on the SARS virus, which raged in 2003 and which is part of the family of coronaviruses, like Covid-19.
"It’s just an experiment, but it raises a lot of concerns," said the presenter of Leonardo, a science show broadcast on RAI, the Italian public broadcasting system.
A group of Chinese researchers has grafted a protein from bats into the Sars virus – acute pneumonia – taken from mice.
The result is a super virus that could strike humans.
The presenter immediately added that the virus "is confined in a laboratory".

The report was relayed by Matteo Salvini, former interior minister and member of the League, on March 25.

????
INCREDIBILE !!! ???
?Da Tgr Leonardo (Rai Tre) del 16.11.2015 servizio su un supervirus polmonare Coronavirus creato dai cinesi con pipistrelli e topi, pericolosissimo per l’uomo (con annesse preoccupazioni).
(1/2) pic.twitter.com/QuLG07XdAt – Matteo Salvini (@matteosalvinimi) March 25, 2020

FAKE OFF

RAI report alluded to 2015 study published in journal

Nature Medicine

.
Carried out by researchers from the University of North Carolina, the Harvard School of Medicine and the Wuhan Institute of Virology, the study looked well at a virus created using the method described in the report.

"The current virus is completely different from the Sars virus [qui a sévi en 2003] and the study virus, "Antonio Lanzavecchia, one of the researchers who participated in the study, said on March 26 in the same Leonardo program.
The Covid-19 and the 2015 virus "are completely different," he says, particularly in their sequence.

Covid-19 "is not a laboratory construct or a purposely manipulated virus"


In a note added to the 2015 study on March 30, the publisher said, "We are aware that this article is used as the basis for unverified theories that the new coronavirus that causes Covid-19 has been made.
There is no evidence that this is true; scientists believe that an animal is the likely source of this coronavirus. "

A study on the origin of Covid-19 published on March 17, 2020 in the same journal concluded that this new virus "is not a laboratory construct or a virus manipulated with design".

Olivier Schwartz, head of the virus and immunity unit at the Institut Pasteur, also recalled that scientists are able to distinguish if a virus has been manipulated in the laboratory by analyzing its sequence.
"We now know how to analyze very precisely [les séquences], by creating phylogenetic trees, he developed on March 11 with France Info.
We can trace the origin of a virus and we know, in the case of this coronavirus [le Covid-19], that it comes from a virus that occurs naturally in some animals, in some bats, and also in pangolin.
In these animals, the virus can be found identical to 90 or almost 98% homology.
There, we know that the virus has passed directly from the bat or pangolin to humans. "

This is what was also recalled on a daily basis

La Repubblica

Fausto Baldanti, professor at the University of Pavia: "A natural virus and a virus created in the laboratory stand out perfectly", before adding: "The experiment of 2015 took place before everyone’s eyes.
The genome of this microorganism has been published in its entirety.
And this one is not the same as the current coronavirus. "

This request for verifications was sent to us by readers.
Do you also want the Fake off team to check an info, photo or video?
Fill out the form below or write to us on Twitter: https://twitter.com/20minFakeOff

20 minutes

East Facebook partner to fight against false news.
Thanks to this device, users of the social network may report information that they believe to be false.


