
What mask use looks like in 10 other countries compared to the U.S.


Masks are now required in the state of California anytime a person is on (or waiting for) public transit, in common and shared spaces, at work, or, really, in any interaction with someone they do not live with.

It’s an odd and uncomfortable modification to life, especially as temperatures climb in the Bay Area, and wearing a mask gets annoying.
But experts increasingly agree that wearing a mask is important, and could have real mitigation power in stopping the spread of the coronavirus (and in particular a second or even third wave of it).
Putting on a cloth mask can not only protect you to some extent, but also protect others from you if you are sick or asymptomatic.
It’s not just a safety move, it's an act of altruism, a demonstration of concern for the health of everyone.

Mask policies, however, vary across the United States, with President Donald Trump allowing governors and county officials to implement their own rules.


Health officials, like those in the CDC and the Mayo Clinic, overwhelmingly recommend cloth mask use so for the most part, leaders are requiring the practice.
And yet, among Americans, there’s discord, defiance and claims that liberties are being trampled by the implementation of these policies, which has led to a stark contrast in mask usage in the US compared to other countries.

How different exactly does America’s mask usage look?
Here’s what the practice looks like in 10 other countries:

Japan


Japan was initially criticized for its early response to the virus: The government did not plan expansive testing, did not shut down businesses or strongly encourage social distancing.
And yet, cases have not exploded there.

"Japan, I think a lot of people agree, kind of did everything wrong, with poor social distancing, karaoke bars still open and public transit packed near the zone where the worst outbreaks were happening," said Jeremy Howard, a USF researcher who has studied the use of masks, to the New York Times.
"But the one thing that Japan did right was masks."

Face coverings are part of the culture in Japan; people had already been wearing them regularly for lots of reasons: to mitigate allergies caused by traffic, to prevent common cold germs from spreading, to keep faces warm in winter, or sometimes even for more cosmetic reasons.

The existing prevalence of Japan’s mask use set the nation on a good trajectory for effectively battling the coronavirus from the outset.
And thus far, Japan has been extremely successful at keeping case numbers down.
In a nation of nearly 130 million people, less than 1,000 have died from COVID-19.

South Korea


South Korea garnered early international praise for containing the coronavirus, mostly by way of ubiquitous mask use.
Like in Japan, mask-wearing in South Korea was already common, giving the country a leg up in the fight against the virus.
Cases have, for the most part, stayed extremely low.

But the country now faces a hurdle.
Temperatures are rising, and mask wearing is growing increasingly uncomfortable.
As Koreans began to defy mask orders (officially issued in late May for those taking public transit), cases started to rise.
Asian clothing makers, like Japan’s Uniqlo, are now working on creating more breathable masks for use in hot weather, hoping to quickly curb the increase of cases.

New Zealand


New Zealand’s Jacinda Ardern took aggressive action against the coronavirus very early on to the point where in June, the country had successfully "eliminated" the virus.

In mid-March, when New Zealand had 100 active cases of the coronavirus, Ardern shut down non-essential businesses and instituted a strict shelter-in-place strategy similar to California’s methods in the earlier days of the outbreak.

The strategy was so effective, New Zealand has returned to business as usual, with schools and businesses open again.
Residents are still nevertheless advised to keep record of where they go, should the need for contact tracing arise.

Because of the country’s early success, New Zealand never needed to implement a mask requirement.
Experts in the country are currently debating whether the country should introduce one, with some saying it could keep a resurgence at bay.

Canada


Policy-wise, the Canadians have largely approached handling the coronavirus in the same way the United States has: Masks are not legally required at the national level but are strongly recommended.
Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, however, has differed from President Donald Trump in that he himself wears a mask and encourages Canadians to do the same.

Masks are still largely not legally required at the city or province level across the country either, but there are exceptions.
Transport Canada (all buses and rail services in Canada) requires masks of passengers and drivers, and two municipalities — one in Ontario and another, Côte Saint-Luc, outside Montreal — currently have mandatory mask laws.
The latter may fine $500 to those who do not follow the law.

At this point, Canadian officials currently believe that the worst is behind them, though some are concerned about the uptick in cases across the United States.
To date, Canada, which has a population of 37.6 million, has recorded around 8,500 deaths.

Argentina


On April 14, Argentina mandated required use of homemade masks — or "tapabocas" — for all who are out in certain areas of the country.

The South American nation had long been a model for its "no-nonsense" handling of the pandemic.
The strict shelter-in-place, for example, required that people could not even leave their homes to exercise, and in its most populous city of Buenos Aires, people could (and still can) be fined between 10,000 and 80,000 pesos ($142-$1134 USD) for not complying.

Following an easing of restrictions in the weeks after a reopening of its economy, cases began to spike again, particularly around Buenos Aires, and now the country is reversing course on its reopening strategy.
Even so, the nation of 44.5 million reports less than 1,500 deaths to date.
Masks are still required.

Germany


Germany has been heralded as one of the world’s biggest success stories in its handling of the coronavirus outbreak.
There have been a few concentrated flare-ups in recent weeks, but broadly, cases have been well-contained due to early mitigation efforts.

One big reason may be that Germany implemented a nationwide mask order for those in stores and on public transit on April 27.
In some parts of Germany, like Bavaria, the order came with a sizable fine for those who do not comply: up to $5,000 ($5,618 USD).

Plus, the locals have reportedly been understanding of the importance of masks.
German media has reported that people largely accept the requirement.

United Kingdom


England and Scotland have both mandated the use of face masks on public transit, and Scotland will soon also make mask use compulsory in stores.
(Northern Ireland has not yet followed suit.)

But in Europe, the U.K. sets itself apart by not more broadly mandating the use of masks.
Other than on transit, use is only encouraged, not required, despite the British Medical Association’s urging for a legal policy.

To date, there have been about 44,000 deaths in the country, which has a population of 67 million.

Italy


Italy, which was declared a virus hotspot early on in the pandemic, has fared better in more recent months, but mask use requirements are still just as strict.

Across the country, Italians must wear masks any time they are in an enclosed space, including in restaurants, stores, public transit and anywhere else.
In some regions, the rules are even more stringent, with areas like Lombardy requiring masks any time someone leaves their home.

Russia


Wearing masks on public transit has been mandatory in Russia since mid-May, but reports indicate many in the country, as in the U.S., are carrying on with their lives as normal and not taking the recommendation — or any safety precaution — to heart.

Perhaps as a result, COVID-19 cases in the country have risen, but the official messaging on the topic is still mixed.
Last week, President Vladimir Putin hosted an "enormous" military parade, flanked by 80- and 90-year-old veterans.
Few were wearing masks.

Brazil


Brazilian cities and states have required masks in most public spaces since April, similar to in the U.S., as cases in the South American country have risen quickly.
In May, in some regions, like Brasilia, fines were implemented.

Currently, Brazil has recorded the second-most fatalities from the coronavirus in the world (after the U.S.).

Still, the country’s far-right president, Jair Bolsonaro, has refused to wear a mask in public.
Last week, he was chided by a judge for not following the federal district’s policy to wear a mask in Brasilia, and warned he may be issued a fine for failing to comply with the law.

MORE CORONAVIRUS COVERAGE:

Sign up for 'The Daily' newsletter for the latest on coronavirus here.


— Newsom announces new restrictions in 19 California counties — The virus didn't stop a socialite from throwing a backyard soiree.
Then tests came back positive.
— These metrics suggest the coronavirus is indeed back on the upswing in the Bay Area — Why coronavirus cases in California are suddenly surging — Gavin Newsom: Californians should 'reconsider' July 4th plans, state will 'mitigate' big gatherings


