
No, a government decree has not “legalized euthanasia”



A hospital bed.
(drawing) –

Pixabay




Euthanasia, banned in France, would have been legalized in all discretion by a government decree dated March 28.
At least if we believe an accusation relayed on social networks.


She claims that allowing doctors to use the Rivotril medication for patients with Covid-19 "whose clinical condition warrants" would be tantamount to authorizing their euthanasia.


Far from authorizing the euthanasia of these patients, the decree actually plans to ease the suffering of those who will not be resuscitated after a collegial decision.

20 minutes

takes stock with several specialists.



While confinement continues, in France, to fight against the coronavirus epidemic, has the government quietly passed a decree to euthanize people with Covid-19?

This was stated by the deputy (UDI) Meyer Habib in a tweet published on April 2: "We give the legal permit to euthanize in France!
Decree of 03/28, the Rivotril, passport for soft death, is in free prescription for 15 days […] It’s morally unbearable!
even to relieve suffering.
Life is hope!
I’m writing to Olivier Véran ".

We give the legal permit to euthanize in France!Decree of 03/28 on #Rivotril, passport for soft death, is prescription free for 15 days # COVID19 It is morally unsustainable!
even to relieve suffering.
Life is hope!
I am writing to @olivierveran – Meyer Habib (@Meyer_Habib) April 2, 2020

Since then, whether it’s Facebook posts, videos or articles on the Mediapart blog, the claim is taken up by many Internet users denouncing this "scandal".

However, if a decree on Rivotril was adopted on March 28, it does not legalize euthanasia, which remains prohibited in France – the last law on this subject, adopted in 2016, providing only for a "right to deep sedation and continuous "for people whose life-threatening condition is engaged in the short term.

FAKE OFF


The decree of March 28 allows, until April 15, "the dispensation of Rivotril by pharmacies" only for "patients affected or likely to be affected by the SARS-CoV-2 virus whose clinical condition justifies it upon presentation of a medical prescription marked "Prescription Except AMM within the framework of Covid-19". "

The text also specifies that the doctor issuing this prescription must "comply [r] exceptional and transient protocols relating, on the one hand, to the management of dyspnea [gêne respiratoire] and, on the other hand, to the palliative management of respiratory distress, established by the French Society of Palliative Care Accompaniment and Care [SFAP] and posted on its site. "

"Clonazepam (Rivotril) in injectable form is a product necessary to deal with certain critical situations that may arise, such as respiratory distress.
It is more suitable than other similar drugs like Valium ", explains to

20 minutes

Professor Claude Jeandel, President of the National Professional Geriatrics Council.

"Rivotril is not used to precipitate death at all"


"Its provision by this decree aims to alleviate the suffering and anxiety of the patients concerned.
Its anxiolytic properties are used to relieve anxiety, not to precipitate death at all.
As soon as we face an end-of-life situation, it improves its comfort, "continues the specialist.

"Rivotril is a sedative known above all for the treatment of tinnitus that doctors no longer had the right to prescribe without the agreement of a neurologist for fear of possible addictions," adds Jean-Paul Hamon, president of the Fédération des Doctors of France (FMF).

On its website, the Federation of dispensing pharmacists (FSPF) confirms that this prescription, which is now accessible to any doctor, is only aimed at "the palliative care of patients facing an asphyxiant state and who cannot be admitted to intensive care or for whom a decision limitation of active treatments has been taken ".

"Respiratory distress is like drowning, it is horrible to live with and gives rise to moments of excruciating pain.
Rivotril is a powerful anxiolytic of the Lexomil family, which allows the patient in respiratory distress to have an accompaniment to remove this morbid anxiety.
It is not a drug that causes death but it does prevent this suffering, "says the president of the FSPF, Philippe Besset.

Contacted by

20 minutes

, the Directorate General of Health (DGS) confirms that the purpose of the decree is "to improve support for palliative care, including outside hospitals, in nursing homes for example, where doctors did not have access to Rivotril" and that its prescription is provided for "to improve [la] end of life "of" patients for whom a decision to limit active treatments has been taken ".

Fears raised on the risk of" a decision made as individuals "

If the text of March 28 therefore clearly defines the restrictive framework in which Rivotril can be used in the midst of the Covid-19 epidemic, Jean-Paul Zerbib, president of the National Union of Salaried Doctors for the CFE-CGC, stresses that " this type of decree is not usual, all the more so when we anticipate a considerable number of patients whose condition will deteriorate. "

"If the patient’s condition is already extremely serious, [le recours au Rivotril] is not euthanasia.
But the risk posed by this decree, and the question posed by some, is whether the decree is not likely to organize support towards the end of life for people who cannot be treated for lack of space , usually elderly or co-morbid?
I do not see it like that and I do not think that the doctors who will be confronted with these cases will see it like that ", continues the specialist.

Before pointing the finger at the excesses he dreads during the extraordinary health situation being crossed at the moment: "But in palliative care units, the decision to accompany towards the end of life with sedatives, patients without hope of improvement is collegial and always with family consultation, it cannot be taken alone.
The decree does not mention the family, and my fear is that it will leave general practitioners, staff in charge of home care for dependent elderly people or even Ehpad doctors alone in decision-making.
Families must be involved and doctors – overwhelmed at the moment – must consult healthcare communities to avoid the decision being made on an individual basis. "

" The decision is taken early and collegially "

However, the collegiality of the decision is indeed one of the prerequisites mentioned in the proposals of the French Society for Support and Palliative Care to which the decree refers, as pointed out to

20 minutes

Frédéric Guirimand, Associate Professor of Palliative Medicine and co-author of this document: "These files clearly state that these proposals only concern patients for whom a collegial decision to limit treatment has been taken, excluding placing them in intensive care. "

"Given the situation, and the fact that patients can get worse within a few hours, with the risk of suffocation sometimes very quickly, the decision cannot be made when it occurs.
It is therefore taken early and collegially, by the treating doctor with the coordinating doctor in Ehpad, with if possible the help of a palliative or geriatric care team and the family is obviously consulted and informed at that time.
This ensures that the nurse has the medication available when the asphyxiation occurs, so that it can be administered and the patient is saved from suffering, "continued Frédéric Guirimand.

And the specialist in turn reminds that "the patients in asphyxial respiratory distress concerned, will die from Covid-19: the injection of Rivotril is not at all lethal, it just avoids the unbearable perception of the asphyxia.
"For its part, the Directorate General of Health finally stresses that" access [au Rivotril] will be coupled with a reinforcement of personnel to ensure its proper use ".

Related


