
Obama And Bill Gates Responsible For The Creation Of The Wuhan Virus And The Spread Of It Worldwide



www.tierneyrealnewsnetwork.com/post/real-news-about-the-wuhan-virus?

Peggy Traeger Tierney

REAL News about the Wuhan Virus HERE'S THE TRUTH BEHIND THE WUHAN VIRUS:

Bill Gates Barack Obama released a docuseries on Netflix called PANDEMIC in December right before the Wuhan virus was "discovered."

The docuseries pushed the need for the Gates Foundation to receive funding to carry on virus research to prevent the next PANDEMIC!

Bill Gates funded the Wuhan lab in China that released the Wuhan virus and is already selling test kits.
Coincidence?
Bill Gates was a member of China's Academy of Sciences who built the lab and he was awarded their highest honor.

The Wuhan virus was originally developed at the University of North Carolina by NIH grants approved by the Obama administration in 2012.

To study the 2003 SARS coronavirus in a lab, NIH scientists developed a man-made version using BAT DNA.
That's what the Communists unleashed.
ab scientists developed a man-made version

The NIH defunded the "dangerous" UNC research because of the proven human-to-human transmission, so the Communist Chinese scientists left UNC and took their work to the NEWLY BUILT Wuhan lab in 2017 - funded by Gates pals.

The head of the Harvard Chemistry Biology department, with ties to Gates Epstein, was arrested for accepting bribes from the Communists.
Did Epstein know what was coming?

The Pirbright Institute, funded by Bill Gates, owns the "patent" on Coronavirus genetic sequencing.
They did simulation testing on a global PANDEMIC in 2019.

The first case of Wuhan virus was reported in China on November 17th.
Communists didn't inform the CDC until January 11th.
WHO Communist China said it wasn't spread by humans until January 21st.
Cover up.

How does the Wuhan virus spread and how does your body fight it?

Bill Gates Barack Obama docuseries marketed the need for a global "universal" vaccine to replace all other flu vaccines.
I believe it will be used to deliver a human chip via nanotechnology designed to be monitored and controlled by Huawei's 5G network.

12,469 people in the US died of H1N1 flu (from Mexico) under Obama in 2009, many of them children, because he waited 6 months to do anything never closed the border.
Obama depleted America's critical medical supplies in 2009 and never restocked.

The media said nothing about the 61 million who were infected in Obama's H1N1 crisis, but is creating a huge panic for Trump around US deaths from the Wuhan virus to destroy the US economy before the election.
They tried to do the same thing with SARS under Bush in 2003.

Know why the Commies unleashed the SWINE FLU virus in 2009 to infect 61 million kill 12,469?
To convince the US to pass OBAMACARE!

Thousands of people in the US have died from the common flu this year and the media says NOTHING about that - but is creating a huge panic around US deaths from the Wuhan virus.

DR DREW: "A bad flu season is 80,000 dead and we've got 18,000 dead this year from the flu so far and 100 dead from Corona.
Which should you be worried about, influenza or Corona?
80,000 versus 100, it's not a trick question.
What I have a problem with is the panic and the fact that businesses are getting destroyed and people's lives are getting upended.
Not by the virus, but by the panic.
The panic must stop, and the press they really need to be held accountable, because they are hurting people."

22 out of the total US deaths from the Wuhan virus have come from ONE nursing home in Kirkland, Washington - and 37 out of 41 US death are in Washington State - the home state of Bill Gates.
They aren't telling you that.

Half the staff (70 people) at that nursing home were infected with Wuhan virus.
They appear to be the carriers.
The nursing home draws employees from a large Chinese population across the border in Canada.
I believe Gates placed carriers in vulnerable locations for the narrative and funding.

Another death in Kansas City occurred in a nursing facility owned by the same company who owns the Kirkland facility!

Right after the first deaths were reported in Bill Gates backyard, the Never Trump Governor declared a national emergency Congress approved over $8 billion - even though Trump asked for only a quarter of that.
Much of the funding will flow to Gates' global "research" partners.

Suddenly Bill Gates says his "foundation" will offer in-home testing kits where you swab your nose with a Q-Tip and send it to his labs.
How convenient and timely!
I think Gates developed the home-testing kits in order to secure access to all our DNA!

Communist China STOLE a patent from a US company that manufactured a treatment right AFTER they announced the virus to the world.
WHO helped!

The same treatments, tests blood plasma used on SARS patients in 2003 work on Wuhan patients.
They don't want you to know that.
Fauci is covering that up.
Why?
Because he's working with Gates on a "vaccine."

19 out of the 21 who tested positive on the Princess Cruise ship were CREW MEMBERS.
Meaning the crews are carriers and are infecting passengers.
Who put them there?

The virus started in South Korea because the leaders of a "doomsday" cult went to Wuhan, China and went back and infected 8,000 of their members.
Who paid them to do that?
South Korean President Moon Jae-in allowed 5 million Chinese to enter the country after the initial outbreak!

In Italy, the virus started in a hospital filled with sick elderly people in a small town in northern Italy -- spread by a 38-year old carrier from Wuhan, who recovered.
Who put him there?
Over 100,000 Chinese migrants from Wuhan own work in the textile/leather industry in Northern Italy.

In 2019, Italy and Communist China signed an agreement to jointly promote China's Belt Road Initiative.
Partners in Wuhan Virus!
Italy admits they are coding ALL deaths to Wuhan.

ER doctors say socialized medicine is so bad in Italy that people avoid clinics and go straight to the hospital where they are housed with the elderly sick - that's why the virus spread so fast.
Under Italy's socialist healthcare, if you're 80+, you can be denied treatment coverage.
Now you know why so many elderly are dying.

Iran's leaders suddenly became infected after Iran's foreign leader met with John Kerry in Munich and laughed about the Wuhan virus on camera.
Almost like he was told to go home, create panic and spread the virus.
Why?
To try to force Trump to drop sanctions.

Iran – like Italy, a partner in China’s Belt and Road initiative – continued flights between Iran and China.
The first outbreak was in the city of Qom where most of the Chinese projects are set up.

WHO: 4 countries with economic political ties (Communist China, South Korea, Italy, Iran) facilitated virus spread around the globe.
Italy, Iran, South Korea China, home to 90% of virus cases, are ALL partners in the Communist Party's One Belt, One Road scheme!

All those videos out of Communist China of people dying on the streets and thrashing bodies on gurnies from the virus - were fake and sent out by Communist propagandists.
What did they really die from?

Thousands of people from Wuhan China have protested against the Communist Party's plans to build an organic waste "incinerator" plant in their city.
They are silent now!
What did they really want the incinerator for?

Real videos show Hong Kong freedom fighters being rounded up in handcuffs and sent off to the "hospital" where it's likely their organs are harvested and they are cremated.

Real videos show elderly people in Communist China trapped in buildings and left to die with no food.

Real videos show that Communist China installed major NEW surveillance cameras and technology to monitor people on the street in their offices since the virus was released.

Real videos show the Chinese people yelling "IT'S ALL FAKE" from high rises as the Communists pretend to care for them on the streets below.

The Chinese are now being forced to use an app which tells them when they can come and go and tracks their every move.
How did the Communists suddenly develop this technology in a month?
This was part of the plan and put in place while they were under "quarantine."

After Trump closed travel from Communist China in January, the Chinese blamed the US and threatened to hold back our pharmaceuticals unless we opened travel back up again.
They didn't expect him to do that - that thwarted their plans to seed the US with more cases.

I believe the virus is no more dangerous than the common flu - for healthy people - but has been engineered to be highly infectious and impact the elderly sick.
Thankfully, it is NOT widely affecting children young adults like pandemic flu does.

Two Stanford doctors believe that the COMMON flu is 10 times more deadly than Wuhan virus.
Stanford doctors

I believe the virus was unleashed by the Communist Party to scare the Chinese people back into their homes and stop the Hong Kong Taiwanese pro-freedom protests.

I believe the virus was unleashed by the Communists to crash the US economy drive people away from Trump rallies.
So far, they've lied about everything!

I believe the virus was unleashed to help the Communists round up dissidents, assert global control and to cull the elderly and weak.

I believe the virus was unleashed to scare the American people into accepting SOCIALIZED medicine and total vote-by-mail.

ALL respiratory viral outbreaks peak in March and end in April.
I believe this one too.

The SARS Coronavirus panic dropped the market 20% in March 2003, under Bush, and it came roaring back even higher by July.
In other words, they've done this before to a Republican administration before an election.

Wuhan virus is impacting less than 1% of the population in areas of "high" infection: China (.12%) S.
Korea (.21%) Italy (.037%) - although the fake news media makes it sounds like 50% of the population is sick.

Why are so many leaders testing positive for Wuhan Virus?
Because Communist China brought the scheme to Davos in January!

The fake news reported that Brazil's conservative President, Bolsonaro, tested positive for Wuhan virus.
His son says that's a LIE.
So far, it appears ONLY left-wing leaders celebrities are testing positive for Wuhan virus.
Sounds like collusion to me!

SOUTH KOREA FACTS: Of 179,160 tests completed, 96% tested negative, 4% positive.

51 people died or .69% of confirmed cases.

Now the fake news is trying to distance Wuhan from the virus -- and so is Communist China.
That means we're right over the target.

The New York Times is calling people "racist" for using the term "Wuhan Virus."
I guess they forgot that's what they used to call it before their masters in the Communist Party told them not to!

Suddenly the liberal Governor of New York says the State will start selling their own brand of hand sanitizer made by prison inmates!
How long was that in the works?

Did you know WHO says 67% of ALL people under 50 in the WORLD are infected with HSV-1 (herpes) virus?
Many NEVER show symptoms.
Think about that.
Are we permanently quarantined for herpes virus?
NO.

Democrats hope to hype the Wuhan virus for months to destroy the economy, bring down the market, shut down Trump rallies, gatherings, debates, the conventions force ALL voting by mail or phone!
They basically said that tonight on MSNBC CNN.
Democrats are masters at rigging absentee ballots!

UPDATE 3/12/20: I heard a few things today from sources I trust I thought you should know:

1) South Korea has already tested 200,000 people and is testing 20,000 people per day and finding a fatality rate of less than .7% - which I trust.

2) The reason Trump shut down travel from the EU is because the newest Wuhan virus cases in America are from travelers who have visited the EU.
The EU has NOT been shutting down its borders to Communist China like we have since 1/31 - in fact the EU is under siege by millions of migrants from who knows where clamoring to invade Greece Italy.

3) The majority of people who are dying from the Wuhan virus are 80+ with underlying conditions such as emphysema, heart disease or cancer.
Young healthy people have a very low risk - but they CAN transmit it to their elderly parents grandparents.
So, be vigilant.
The average age of those who succumb to the Wuhan virus has been confirmed at 81 years old.

4) Many deaths in Communist China appear to come from elderly residents in Hubei province who received NO care at all and were left to fend for themselves.
The reason the Wuhan Virus impacts the elderly vulnerable is simply because their immune systems are not as strong.

5) Many cases in Communist China were actually infected healthcare workers who were not properly safeguarded from patients and ended up re-infecting more patients.
China told their healthcare workers there was no contagion problem for weeks, when there was.

6) The same is true in Washington State California - nursing home employees cruise ship crew members are spreading the virus to people - not the other way around.

7) As I mentioned many times, historically, Coronavirus outbreaks PEAK in March and start to die out by the end of April.
Coronaviruses like cooler drier weather.
A second round can start up again in October after a summer hiatus.

8) Of those tested who were positive for ANY respiratory virus, ONLY 2% tested positive for Wuhan.
Meaning 98% have the common flu.

9) In order to STOP THE SPREAD in America, during the peak transmission months of March April, President Trump ASKED businesses, sports teams and major events to suspend activity for 8 weeks to reduce transmission during this peak time.
Makes perfect sense to stop it in its tracks and lower the bell curve.
What if the shutdown is NOT about Wuhan Virus at all?

10) The bright side of the panic is that liberals are suddenly wanting to buy guns, close borders, build walls, honor elders, cut taxes, stop human trafficking and vaccinate their children.

3/20 UPDATE on Wuhan Virus.

3/22 UPDATE on Wuhan Virus.

3/27 UPDATE on Wuhan Virus.

What if the shutdown isn't about the Wuhan Virus at all?

FOR BREAKING NEWS, follow us on FACEBOOK.

To receive news updates and communicate with us by email, SUBSCRIBE below.

If you want to support our work, DONATE HERE.

COVID Tracking Project By State: covidtracking.com/data/

Tracker by State: www.us-covid-tracker.com/

For updates on global spread of the Wuhan virus: ncov2019.live/data



Jesus christ you're like the guy in the writers room of a bad TV show who pitches ideas every day that get harrumphed and then snickered at around the water cooler.
Scientists have been warning the world of our ill-preparedness for a pandemic for years.
It's so easy to draw spurious connections for crying out loud, any moron can do it.
The sky is falling in your world, and you think because of this trash you copy and paste that you're the only person on the planet who knows the "truth."
Read a book FFS



Apr 4, 2020 at 1:23pm WTF said:

Jesus christ you're like the guy in the writers room of a bad TV show who pitches ideas every day that get harrumphed and then snickered at around the water cooler.
Scientists have been warning the world of our ill-preparedness for a pandemic for years.
It's so easy to draw spurious connections for crying out loud, any moron can do it.
The sky is falling in your world, and you think because of this trash you copy and paste that you're the only person on the planet who knows the "truth."
Read a book FFS

Whata Total Fool, I can't possibly think I am "the only person on the planet who knows" since as you pointed out I copied and pasted the article.
But it is you, not I, that is the simple minded moron, who can't see the "truth".



Apr 4, 2020 at 1:23pm WTF said:

Jesus christ you're like the guy in the writers room of a bad TV show who pitches ideas every day that get harrumphed and then snickered at around the water cooler.
Scientists have been warning the world of our ill-preparedness for a pandemic for years.
It's so easy to draw spurious connections for crying out loud, any moron can do it.
The sky is falling in your world, and you think because of this trash you copy and paste that you're the only person on the planet who knows the "truth."
Read a book FFS

For you Whata Total Fool,

www.washingtonexaminer.com/news/mark-cuban-fox-news-interview-interrupted-by-skype-call-from-ex-obama-adviser

Dallas Mavericks owner and billionaire businessman Mark Cuban had an abrupt stop to a Fox News interview after being interrupted by a Skype call from an ex-Obama adviser.

Fox News host Dana Perino asked Cuban how he would gradually reopen the U.S. economy amid the spread of the coronavirus pandemic.

"What about, you know, somebody like the Bruins owner, Jeremy Jacobs, he’s taken some heat.
He’s a billionaire himself, but people there are going to be laid off.
Temporary furloughs, indefinite salary reductions, is that the type of brand hit you’re talking about?"
Perino asked.

"Exactly, I mean, there's no sympathy for anybody that's wealthy.
Now, I'm not going to speak for him.
I don't know his personal situation, but I've told all of my companies, 'We're going to keep all of our people on," Cuban began before being interrupted by a Skype call from ex-Obama economic adviser Robert Wolf.

The interruption prompted laughter from Perino.
"I think that he was getting a call there.
Looks like it might’ve been from somebody really important," she said.

The interview came to an abrupt end, and Perino thanked the billionaire for appearing.

EDIT: Mark did get to speak later though.



Apr 4, 2020 at 1:23pm WTF said:

Jesus christ you're like the guy in the writers room of a bad TV show who pitches ideas every day that get harrumphed and then snickered at around the water cooler.
Scientists have been warning the world of our ill-preparedness for a pandemic for years.
It's so easy to draw spurious connections for crying out loud, any moron can do it.
The sky is falling in your world, and you think because of this trash you copy and paste that you're the only person on the planet who knows the "truth."
Read a book FFS

It's kind of interesting that the Global Health Security Index was developed last October by the World Economic Forum, the John Hopkins Institute and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation: www.ghsindex.org

The index was released to measure each country's ability to respond to global pandemics.
The USA was ranked first in its ability to prevent, detect and respond to an out of control virus.

The Health Security Index was released alongside Event 201, a simulation exercise sponsored by the organizations listed above.
It is somewhat disturbing that the exercise predicted actual events that we are seeing in real time related to the Coronavirus.
www.centerforhealthsecurity.org/event201/

Personally, I'm not very excited that Bill Gates has been given "expert" credentials related to the Coronavirus.
Gates has been open about his preference for a smaller world population.
His father is also a known eugenicist: www.catholicstand.com/eugenics-in-america/



Apr 5, 2020 at 4:22pm Guest 5 said:

Apr 4, 2020 at 1:23pm WTF said:

Jesus christ you're like the guy in the writers room of a bad TV show who pitches ideas every day that get harrumphed and then snickered at around the water cooler.
Scientists have been warning the world of our ill-preparedness for a pandemic for years.
It's so easy to draw spurious connections for crying out loud, any moron can do it.
The sky is falling in your world, and you think because of this trash you copy and paste that you're the only person on the planet who knows the "truth."
Read a book FFS

It's kind of interesting that the Global Health Security Index was developed last October by the World Economic Forum, the John Hopkins Institute and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation: www.ghsindex.org

The index was released to measure each country's ability to respond to global pandemics.
The USA was ranked first in its ability to prevent, detect and respond to an out of control virus.

The Health Security Index was released alongside Event 201, a simulation exercise sponsored by the organizations listed above.
It is somewhat disturbing that the exercise predicted actual events that we are seeing in real time related to the Coronavirus.
www.centerforhealthsecurity.org/event201/

Personally, I'm not very excited that Bill Gates has been given "expert" credentials related to the Coronavirus.
Gates has been open about his preference for a smaller world population.
His father is also a known eugenicist: www.catholicstand.com/eugenics-in-america/

March 2015


www.washingtonpost.com/national-security/us-intelligence-reports-from-january-and-february-warned-about-a-likely-pandemic/2020/03/20/299d8cda-6ad5-11ea-b5f1-a5a804158597_story.html

Now that PM Johnson is in hospital...Trump gets anxious for his ass



eulenspiegel, you really are a F-ing moron.

EDIT: I mignt have felt sorry for you, if you didn't pick the name of one of the three East German magazines that survived after the German unification to use as a hateful troll.





Apr 5, 2020 at 5:54pm Guest 5 said:

Apr 5, 2020 at 4:31pm eulenspiegel said:

March 2015

www.washingtonpost.com/national-security/us-intelligence-reports-from-january-and-february-warned-about-a-likely-pandemic/2020/03/20/299d8cda-6ad5-11ea-b5f1-a5a804158597_story.html

Now that PM Johnson is in hospital...Trump gets anxious for his ass

Your hero Bill Gates Met With Jeffrey Epstein Many Times, Despite His Past:

www.nytimes.com/2019/10/12/business/jeffrey-epstein-bill-gates.html

Your hero Bill Gates Admits Vaccines Are For Population Control:


Leave the judgment of character to others as you simply don't have that ability

In recent days I came to the conclusion that DT ..and all you are satire/comedy accounts..

btw.
pox, measles, polio ..all these nice diseases if not vaccines ;(

I have no problem with many Trump voters taking no vaccines, all these evangelical medieval...all these stupid people believing your bs ...after some time there is an easy solution/result ....survival of the fittest - no more people like you;)



Apr 5, 2020 at 6:48pm eulenspiegel said:

Apr 5, 2020 at 5:54pm Guest 5 said:

Your hero Bill Gates Met With Jeffrey Epstein Many Times, Despite His Past:

www.nytimes.com/2019/10/12/business/jeffrey-epstein-bill-gates.html

Your hero Bill Gates Admits Vaccines Are For Population Control:


Leave the judgment of character to others as you simply don't have that ability

In recent days I came to the conclusion that DT ..and all you are satire/comedy accounts..

btw.
pox, measles, polio ..all these nice diseases if not vaccines ;(

I have no problem with many Trump voters taking no vaccines, all these evangelical medieval...all these stupid people believing your bs ...after some time there is an easy solution/result ....survival of the fittest - no more people like you;)

As always Globalist, and therefore their moronic mouthpiece puppets, accuse others of doing exactly what they themselves are doing.
And here you are regurgitating their lies, and doing what they do.
Not only do you take the name of a one of ONLY 3 East German magazines that survived after the German unification, it is the one that was a satirical magazine.

Eulenspiegel – Das Satiremagazin is a German satirical magazine.
It is published by Eulenspiegel GmbH in Berlin.

It is one of three East German magazines that survived after the German unification, with a circulation of 110,000, Globalist, moronic Globalist useful idiots, and other assorted Scum of the Earth.

EDIT: No doubt the magazine took it's name from a 14 Century hateful, mean spirited scumbag who played cruel, vile, and often evil pranks on anyone unluck enough to cross his path.
The Globalist have of course been nearly successful in rewriting the facts about Till Eulenspiegel(one of their early useful idiots) over the pass 6 centuries.








Michael10 hours ago Islamic Republic of Germany only Islamic country helping refugees besides Turkey.
Reply2 prudentone prudentone12 hours ago That is the same Merkel who could not get her hands fast enough on a pen to sign the UN migration pact.
Same for Justin Trudeau.
Reply281 francisco francisco18 hours ago a migrant in the us, is one who goes to work up north and when the season is over we go back HOME.... in the same COUNTRY....... Reply25 dee dee13 hours ago Why take only 50?
She encouraged migrants from around the world to flock to Europe.
Why should Greece have her headache?
Reply311 Dave Dave21 hours ago If the world doesn't close ALL borders, we will never get this virus under control.
ReplyReplies (2)493 BaltoBaby BaltoBaby16 hours ago 57 Muslim countries and they will die trying to get to a non Muslim one.
80% of Muslims in Western countries are on Welfare.
ReplyReplies (2)661 El sabio El sabio12 hours ago There goes the neighborhood.
Reply David David12 hours ago That'll just encourage more to come.
Reply19 Josie Josie10 hours ago The Mutt (Merkel) never ceases to amaze.
Youths "14 to 18" going on 25; ID was "lost", so no way to verify their age and identity.
What happens when the parents, grandparents, great-grandparents, siblings, 1st/2nd/3rd cousins all show up on the Mutt's door demanding "kinship asylum" ?
ReplyReplies (1)201 Julie Julie12 hours ago You keep taking those 24 year old, "youths".
Reply181 Show more



World Germany agrees to take in 50 young migrants from Greek islands Heil !!!
Good Move ...Then Take Their Families ...



"We don't want to wait any longer for the others and are starting now," Foreign Minister Heiko Maas told n-tv television, adding that in the long run, Germany would take in 350 to 500 unaccompanied minors.
MUTT ....we will raise them as our own .


