
Pandemic Normalizing ‘Social’ Euthanasia


People we had better watch out, just like abortion it starts with (and I say this with tongue in cheek) abortion being very small reasons for it.
Now we see what it has turned into, will euthanasia go the same way?
Lord what have we become.
murder at both ends of life.
Like they did with Baal the god of the Canaanites, sacrificing babies, to the other end of life.
Like the Nazi's murdering you if you had defects.
Or in our case also now if it is inconvenient or would cost to much.


It already has, I've had to fight to get my patient, who was not dying, off hospice.
I've also witnessed patients being starved to death.


Scary


Hate to break it to you but this has always been the practice in hospitals when faced with people who are deemed terminally ill, suffering and are unlikely to survive.
"Snowing", "slow code", pulling the curtains around a particular bed and not calling the family until the patient had been "found to be unresponsive and could not be resuscitated".

I recall one elderly terminal patient who went into arrest, did not have a signed DNR in her file and was successfully resuscitated.
Her response when she gained consciousness?
"Why did you do that?
", she asked.

Two days later she arrested again and the team on the floor slow-coded the response and allowed her to go in peace.
Then called the family.

It happens.
It always has.


This is a shocking development.
No wonder God's wrath is being poured out on the world.


The world is adopting " hitler mentality"..This is in plain english ,demonic influence....JESUS DELIVER US FROM ALL EVIL...


Read up on the Spanish Flu of 1918.
Hospitals and staff were similarly overwhelmed.
It finally got to the point where when another patient was brought in they would be quickly evaluated.
If the nurses decided they were unlikely to survive they would immediately put on the toe tag, cover the person over with blankets, keep them as comfortable as possible and allowed them to pass.

This has always been the case, hospital staff making the call family cannot bring themselves to do.


Your reply smacks of evil pride.
You think humans can play God?
BEGONE, Satan, in the name of Jesus Christ.


This comment was deleted.


So what?
I can't board my dog out or take him to a training class or dog park without the proper certificates showing he has been vaccinated against common diseases.
Rabies.
Distemper.
Parvo.
Kennel Cough.
Others.
It's the law and it is in place to protect others from YOU.

When the polio vaccine first came out you didn't have parents hollering for the right to not vaccinate their kids.
They had public vaccination set ups in schools and parks so we could all get the shot.
And when the oral vaccine came out they had the same vaccination drives and we all got it again.

Why?
Because back then we all knew kids that had been crippled by polio.
The kid in class with the withered leg or arm, or we knew about FDR and why you never saw him walking of standing in public or in photos.

If you don't want to get vaccinated for some paranoid reason, go ahead.
As with polio, I'll be the first in line, thanks.


This comment was deleted.


Lynn, I get your point.
There appears to be something unusual to this pandemic-China (?
of deliberate release), still panic in grocery stores, talk of basic income churches closed etc....
This is a karmic shift that is being ushered in for some reason and the simplest explanation is population control.
That is just my guess but I would be wary of any government vaccination program until it can be proven that the vaccine is not being contaminated for some long term leftist/progressive agenda.


Perhaps those running things down here are now saying among themselves: "With them so compliant with this mere flu and a few deaths, why not a full-blown plague where we inoculate those we want to keep, or just inoculate those we want to cull?
Then, there must be for the rest, permits to limit children, and only to parents who are superior and those whom we approve."

Yet, we look around in the midst of the great shutdown which these self-made gods from on high have bestowed on us with their little flu dodge, and we say: "Hey look everyone!
The Emperor has no clothes!
Where have all the cars gone?
Long time passing.
There are not too many people.
There are too many cars.
There are too many planes, grown-up play things, useless junk, and just too much wasteful hustle and bustle.
We can work at home with our kids and even home-school them.
We do not have to be dependent on government.
Besides, all our governments have failed us.
We will just have to make do and cooperate with one another."

All of a sudden the ticky tacky from China becomes less important and there is a lot more time to actually live and to love the people who are your friends and your relatives.
This quite time and isolation which our dissembling leaders and their elite puppet masters have arranged for everyone, perhaps may be the perfect opportunity not only for reflection and resetting our personal lives and relations with God and those who matter the most to us, but also for young couples to have more faith and simply go ahead and have children.
Now wouldn't that be an ironic twist of events that instead of young couples being coerced into reducing their progeny by orchestrated fear, the threat of economic privation, and fertility-toxic vaccination programs imposed upon them, they react by saying, "At least we now know now that God and having children are the most important things in our lives, and that for the common good and for "social distancing", we must do our part during this terrible plague to ensure that humanity survives long into the future."

You can only think this way and turn things around if you have the true faith.


This analysis of mortality rates is pretty reductive.
Assuming higher mortality is the result of euthanasia doesn't seem to account for disparate ratios of seniors to younger folks across different countries nor does it account for different governmental measures to stem the spread.

As for the US, maybe we'd be better equipped to help everyone if the President had not made the brilliant decision to dissolve the National Security Council's Global Health Security and Biodefense unit.


Maybe we should just blame the CCP instead of Trump because when he is blamed the focus is taken off why we have this global pandemic to begin with.
It is a tactic and no one should succumb to it.


What the CCP does is more or less out of our control.
How the executive branch addresses crises that arise is something that can still be shaped by public outrage.
Thus far the President/ his administration have done and said a bunch of highly questionable things: continuing to golf and hold rallies even into last month after it was clear there was a pandemic that had reached American shores, claiming this would all go away by April, saying that everyone that wanted to get tested could get tested, trying to advocate for certain medications (contradicting Dr. Fauci), altering the national stockpile website to reflect Jared Kushner's asinine remarks.
To be clear, the President's pro life stance IS commendable, but that doesn't grant him impunity.
Also, given one of the biggest Chinese govt banks has an office in Trump Tower, it doesn't seem like Trump shares the distaste for the CCP that we have as Catholics.


It's still April :)


"I would love to have the country opened up and just rarin' [sic] to go by Easter."
- Trump March 24

Easter was yesterday, but if there are no new cases by April 30, I'll gladly admit that the President called it.


Who wouldn't have wanted the country open by Easter?
The anti-malaria drug is there for people to take.
The solution is there for the taking.
Go figure!


Not quite a clear solution when there have been only a small handful of studies to show it works.


I believe Trump holds the success of HQ in the palm of his hand is keeping this news for a later date.
The Military NY both asked for a million doses.
In the meantime he just goes along quietly beating them at their own game.
He wants to save lives while they don’t care about saving lives.
They just want to destroy him.
He is ruining their 200 yr old plan.
They are livid!


A quick Google search of 'hydroxychloroquine deaths' will reveal a number of articles covering a study done on veterans, which found that the number of deaths increased as a result of trying to use this drug to treat corona.
Not sure what 200 year old plan you're referring to.


A number of articles?
Oh ok so a number of doctor's prescribed the drug incorrectly then.
It is a prescription drug not an over the counter one.


The correct drugs were correctly prescribed and administered.
One can't do a thorough test of medication on only a single patient.
The data looked at the survival rate of those given the medications versus those who did not receive it and found a higher mortality rate among those who received it.


I'll wait.


Google??
You must be kidding me.
I shall just wait for President Trump's statistics.
I might just as well just ask Nancy or Fake News as Google!
Google is Fake News and you know it and I know it and they know it.
As President Trump would say!!


President Trump (like most politicians Republican and Democrat) has a vested interest in presenting information that bolsters the idea that his propositions were successful.

As for Google, I'm not sure how you can claim it's 'fake news' given it's a search engine used to access a host of different websites (informative and otherwise) based on key words.
Google is not a single source of information nor is it a periodical or journalistic publication.


This is how the culture of death works.
This has been building for years.
Euthanasia is becoming the new abortion.
We cannot let it happen.


Many of those doctors and nurses who are euthanizing patients are going to join Dr.
Kevorkian in hell.


"Nurses are being asked to follow a sedation protocol with fatal doses for a certain category of patient who could still be saved."

If you or a Loved One are diagnosed with a 4th Stage cancer, think twice about getting talked into any Tru-Beam Radiation therapy and or chemotherapy.
You may have more hope with alternative cures.
Of course, the palliative care will keep you out of pain for the most part.
But once the Specialists make their money from your insurance, they condemn you to Hospice.
Once you sign off on the Hospice papers, you're dead within days.
They use opioids and Adavan mix.
Basically , it's a chemical strangulation and it's not pretty to watch.


This happened with my sister-in-law.


I'm sorry for your loss.
Hopefully, she's in a much better place.


We come now to the culmination of decades of false and evil "mercies" directed toward the elderly and the those with disabilities.
Few felt qualms at leaving their elderly parents in facilities that animals should not live in.
Few felt qualms at sending their children with disabilities off to institutions and facilities run by the state....out of sight, out of mind....never knowing what abuse their loved ones endured.
And now, those very same are elderly and they now face the same sentence, carried out by those who believe they are being merciful... to be injected with chemicals to hasten their death.
What we have done to others will be done to us.
Remember this....those who face such horror were once young themselves and what they did to others is being done to them now.
We reap what we sow no matter how old and "grandparently" we seem.



"....but testimonies emerging from Italian hospitals speak of a practice adopted since the first days of the epidemic — that of not treating everyone, but only people under 75 years of age...."


This is a different sort of news now appearing, one I had not heard before.
Previously it was reported that the elderly had underlying physical ailments that made them more susceptible to the virus ...making them more vulnerable --- and that was offered as the reason the virus appeared to have such a higher mortality rate among the elderly.
These folks are saying that the elderly had treatment witheld ... which is a very different set of circumstances contributing to the high mortality rate of the elderly ... if it is true.
True or not?
it is VERY disturbing report.


There was a report on the news yesterday here in Chicago where a 70 year old man with a wife of 48 years and obviously concerned adult chidren was taken to a local hospital with symptoms of COVID-19.
He also had diabetes and was fighting leukemia.
They family says the doctors there told them outright they were not going to treat him or try to save him; one doctor said she was not going to risk her staff getting the virus from him, supposedly since he had other life threatening illnesses.

They tried to convince the family to sign a DNR (Do not resuscitate order) but the family refused.
The doctors said it didn't matter since two doctors agreed at the prognosis, they could do what they wanted.
No one was allowed to be with him or speak to him.
He passed away.

So yes, this is going on.


If that is the case, a person is better off taking their chances at home.
If you die, at least you can avoid being sedated, you can be surrounded by your loved ones (which can help bring them back to faith) and you can likely find a priest to give you the sacraments.


