
How is Covid-19 related to hard immunity?


Lance Ishimoto

, former SVP at Lexicon Pharmaceuticals (1998-2020)

Answered 7 months ago · Author has 1.7K answers and 1.2M answer views

Originally Answered: What is the difference between antibody presence and immunity with Covid?
How does this difference impact the path toward herd immunity?

Herd immunity is what we call it when a sufficient percentage of the population, or "herd", has developed effective immunity (either naturally or via vaccination) against a pathogen so that it no longer robustly spreads within a population.
Think of immune individuals in a population as functioning similar to how control rods modulate a nuclear chain reaction.

The vast majority of infectious pathogens that can be broadly conquered by the immune system primarily do so via adaptive antibody immunity.
While much has been written about the broader lack of "SARS-CoV-2-specific" antibodies in people


Epidemics end in one of three ways:

1- Everyone who can get infected gets infected (see Black Death in Medieval Europe, Smallpox in Age of Exploration Americas, Spanish Flu in 1918–1920)

2- Government action finds everyone who is sick, quarantines them, and prevents further spreading (see Wuhan China, 2020, SARS in China In 2002, Ebola in West Africa, 2018)

3- Transmission slows in warm/dry weather (see influenza, every year)

We don’t know yet if Covid-19 will slow down when the Northern Hemisphere turns to Spring.
Right now China is succeeding at #2, South Korea is trying, and rumor has it Italy


COVID-19 is an infection caused by a new mutation of a virus SARS-CoV-2 which is the scientific way of trying to classify the virus so it can be referenced in a unique way .

When you have the ‘flu you know you are unwell, and you just want to recover as soon as possible.

To a scientist they want to know what variant of the ‘flu you have (currently 4 main types and numerous mutations from those) To formulate an effective treatment.

we have known about influenza for many years, we do not have a vaccine that treats the infection, just a concoction that based on our understanding could help reduce th


Yes.
Most people that are infected recover and develop some immunity.
And repeated infections of COVID 19 are rare.

But this risks a person becoming seriously ill and potentially die.
If this was done in the US to gain effective immunity it could cost over 3 million lives.
People that survive COVID 19 may have some permanent damage and ongoing effects.
Such as scarring of the lungs.
And possibly some problems that are not fully understood but may involve autoimmune problems.

Trump supported the idea of infecting as many people as possible so that the population will develop effective immunity.
B


Will COVID-19 Vaccine Give you Immunity?
| IntelliStartDr.
Daniel Refai Answers Coronavirus Questions.
Daniel Refai, MD, is Professor in the Department of Neurosurgery and the Department of Orthopedics at Emory University School of Medicine.https://intellistart.us/will-covid-19-vaccine-give-you-immunity/

What are some of the key things that businesses should implement as they open up to screen for Covid-19 virus?

I think one of the key things is you have to provide an environment that is safe, not only for your employees, your patients, your customers.
Which can require you to do multiple different things.
One of them is going to be social distancing.
One is going to be hand sanitizing and adequate and frequent temperature checking with a policy of wearing masks.
We know these are effective ways in preventing the transmission of Covid-19.

We know from our exper


