
OPERATION LOCK-STEP – The Sinister Agenda behind Covid-19


You may be interested in or know of a man named Max Igan.
If not, look up Crowhouse on youtube.
We need people you can see through the facade of the pandemic to rally together.
I am ready to fight this insanity.


Thank you for that, Amy.

Max’s videos were pulled, apparently, from youtube.
At least, most.
Will search for them.
Thank you


https://www.youtube.com/user/ziller1978


Thanks for the link.
The first words I heard were: "schools teach people to be ignorant with style."
That is so perfect.


You can find Max on bitchute


Check this channel.
Great info.
https://youtu.be/T81M8ukjSIQ There is a materiaal on max Igan puppet and sellout on it.


Toutes les videos de Max Igan / Johnny Bigger sont effectivement visibles sur Bitchute, channel Crowhouse.
Bitchute et BrandNewTube contiennent d’excellents documentaries.
Doctor Vernon Coleman sur Brand NewTube ainsi que Prof.
Dolores Cahill.


Am I missing something here?
The report was published in 2010, however on pg 18 where it talks about the Lockstep – it talks about the H1N1 in 2012….
I am guessing the pub was updated … but I do not see where that is stated anywhere.
Your thoughts?


The paper was published as a narrative for a future pandemic.
They used a "hypothetical pandemic and virus" that would happen in the "future."
But just so happens the "future" seems to be now with Coronavirus.
You can replace the "hypotheticals" with today’s viral outbreak and see it was basically used a playbook today on how to create a complete lockdown of the world.
And hopefully everyone who reads it sees how everyone is in "lockstep" today just like it "predicted."


Thank you for the apt reply to Denise Wynn


I seem to be confused by your question?
If you are referring to the Schwartz scenario, this is the answer.
The Schwartz is one possibility that was part of many futurist scenarios that formed part of the 2010 Report.
These scenarios were given dates, times, locations, seasons, etc.
If you are referring to something else, please provide clarity so I may provide the correct answers.


Mankind without The Father is left to " hypothesis" and subsequently their own demise.
All these things even down to the last detail are written.
Revelation is The Father’s last chapter before the world is made new again.
Repent ask The Lord Jesus Christ into your heart and He will walk with you, stand with you and never leave you!
He is The Good and Almighty Shepard!
Be a part of Him in His flock, not part of the devil’s herd to the slaughter!


Yes Jeff that is only way.
We will never stop this freight train


Jeff and Todd: With God, all things are possible.


Bible prophecy cannot and will not be stopped.
We’ve been warn from the very beginning and are finally entering the last days.


Jeff F.: You nailed it.
Thanks for your comment!
Larry H.


mene mene tekel upharsin


So true.


When will the next article be published…I’ve been following the old website and the new website for a very long time….
Hope we’ll be getting a new article soon


New article will be posted later tonight


Tx for reading my articles.
They will be published as long as I m alive.
Many more articles still to be loaded.


After reading several articles, I can understand why so many refuse to believe anything other than the media’s propaganda.
The truth is much scarier than the pandemic.


Gibt es hierzu auch Belege oder sind das Thesen?


You might wonder whom all this is headed by?
https://duckduckgo.com/?q=Churches+with+all+seeing+eye=hk=images=images


We don’t have these where I worship.
This short article, available around the world in more than 1000 languages, may be of interest to you: https://www.jw.org/en/bible-teachings/questions/what-gods-kingdom-will-do/

It explains how God’s kingdom is poised to take rulership over the earth.
What we’re experiencing now is the end of a millenia-long rulership challenge.
However, all the evidence proves that humans can’t rule over themselves.
The short-term future is perturbing.
The long-term future is superlative.


There is…Satan, the Antichrist, and the False Prophet, the trinity of evil.
Because satan wants a trinity to copy THIS: God, the Father, and the Holy Spirit, the trinity of good.

And how could the Catholic Pope, all the Catholic churches, not be evil, with all those pictures you showed?
I believe the statement, "come out of her", is what I would beg Catholic people to do, too!

We know Satan is Satan himself.
We won’t know who the second in command is yet, the "Antichrist".
Many people in history have always tried to place that title on evil leaders, such as Hitler, and others.
But we will know someday.

But the "False Prophet" is easy.
Whoever the Pope is during the Tribulation will have that title, I believe.
How could someone, who leads, and is in charge of so MANY people’s faith, around the world, with these people, practically worshiping him already, not have a seat with the most evil?
The pope is the most popular man, almost beside presidents, and other leaders.
I can’t see him being left out.
Who else, as popular around the world, could have this label, as the "False Prophet"?


Ontdekgod.nl gaat heel diep in over Gods Kingdom en de valse leer dat Yeshua elk moment kan komen.
Ook goede stof en goed onderbouwt


We don’t have these where I worship.
This short article, available around the world in more than 1000 languages, may be of interest to you: https://www.jw.org/en/bible-teachings/questions/what-gods-kingdom-will-do/

It explains how God’s kingdom is poised to take rulership over the earth.
What we’re experiencing now is the end of a millenia-long rulership challenge.
However, all the evidence proves that humans can’t rule over themselves.
The short-term future is perturbing.
The long-term future is superlative.


I wonder, and I do respect your beliefs, but if you have ever explored other possibilities besides worshiping a god?
Like you may be a bit of a god yourself and have the ability to create your own reality here on Earth.
The bible is a collection of writings, some clearly borrowed from previous older civilizations and created as the word of God.
Is it possible that God gave us, as humans, the ability to create as him, as we were created in his image?
Shouldn’t we take responsibility for our own creation?
When was the last time someone seen God?
Or the last time a true prophet of God?
Maybe we are part of God and it’s time we remember that and get on with it instead of waiting for someone else to come rescue us….that may be part of the control factor.
We really have the power, we have just forgotten…


Really the Bible is a collection of several writing of men inspired by God Himself and since those authors were inspired, the collection is not their own thoughts and premonitions but God Himself using their hands to pen down his thoughts and heart-felt desires for mankind.
He made the earth where He put the man whom He created, but man made the world for himself and is manipulating it to his taste according to the dictates of Satan as revealed in the Book of Revelation in the Bible Asbury is being unfolding now.
We are ALL sinners, but God didn’t leave us to our peril.
He gave us His Son Jesus Christ to die for ALL of us, male and female.
What is then left for you and I?
Repent and believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and escape the final destruction being targeted at by this world changers.


"Библия" – это сценарий, написанный древними или не очень древними жрецами, имеющими цель внедрить технологию "разделяй и властвуй".
Библия внушает людям, что они грешные рабы, родились в грехе и сдохнут в грехе, если не будут соблюдать заповеди.
Ну и кто их соблюдает?
Раб будет делать все возможное, чтобы саботировать указы


When you look around, outside, what do you see?
And where did the first humans come from?
How do the planets keep revolving without losing their place.
Did man make the seasons, the moon, the sun, the stars that can’t even be counted?
Did man make the oceans and the rivers, or was it the big bang that created everything, out of nothing?
Did we come from apes, or we were just little fishes that grew into people?
What are your thoughts on THAT?
And where are you gonna go when you die?
Do you have a soul?
Go ahead and find the "god" within yourself, that’s exactly what satan wants!!
Or read the KJV, and learn something!

So the great dragon was cast out, that serpent of old, called the Devil and Satan, who deceives the whole world; he was cast to the earth, and his angels were cast out with him.
Revelation 12:9

1 John 5:19 the whole world lies under the influence of the evil one

James 4:7 – Submit yourselves therefore to God.
Resist the devil, and he will flee from you.

2 Corinthians 4:4, the "god of this world has blinded the minds of unbelievers, so that they cannot see the light of the gospel of the glory of Christ."

2 John 1:7 For many deceivers are entered into the world, who confess not that Jesus Christ is come in the flesh.
This is a deceiver and an antichrist


Read Revelations!
JW may make some really good points, but they are quick to shun and condemn, and the constant use of slave and servant is too over the top.
Jesus’ reign does not occur until after the beast system has terrorized and tormented and deceives much of the world.
It appears JW might be headed toward the noahide lies of the fallen ones, the vaccine seems to be part of the great deception as the science would make you a GMO genetically modified organism meaning patentable and ownable like a permanent slave brand, to buy or sell.
That is not Jesus’ millennial reign, yet, before releasing satan once again.
The head of the serpent that Jesus’s cut off has come back with a vengeance against humans, we are under the beast system and until they do their worst to capture and enslave or kill many who follow the kings of the world.
Read what Jesus said.
But be wary of the decepticons.
Read KJ or another translation as well.
I worry that some may have sold out, to the Jesuit/zionist/freemason/shriner cult of death.
Remember great king soloman may have started out well with God but his life ended in separation from God.
Many rabbis and priest have lead men astray for their own worldly gain.
Often killing the prophets and messengers, even kings to remain in power.
Read it for yourself.
Especially the NT.


No other translation!
Just the KJV!
Other translations are man made with satan’s help!
They leave out verses, and change a LOT of words.

18 For I testify unto every man that heareth the words of the prophecy of this book, If any man shall add unto these things, God shall add unto him the plagues that are written in this book: 19 And if any man shall take away from the words of the book of this prophecy, God shall take away his part out of the book of life, and out of the holy city, and from the things which are written in this book.

Rev.
22: 18-19


Thanks for this interesting research btw.


Why are they so hellbent on vaccines?
Is the the money?
What’s in them?


turn you into GMO patentable ownable slave permanent branding by minions of satan and the fallen ones.
Revelations Great deception comes first under beast system cannot buy or sell with out the mark of the beast.
For thousands of years they have been slowly enslaving and working toward their evil empire.
kind of like being turned into an orc.
out of lord of the rings, which is so similar to the bible in some ways.


What’s in them??
Evil of course!
We’re told that satan is on this earth, AND his demon followers.
And these "people" who want to give everyone a vaccine, is one of those!
To have us controlled and monitored.
Satan wants that!
Pretty soon, there will be a mark that you have to take, it will be placed IN (not on) your right hand, or IN (not on) your forehead.
These technologies are already here!
If you take the mark, you will belong to satan, and if you DON’T take the mark (which will be extremely hard to do, but not if you belong to God), then you will have a place in heaven.
Your choice.
Study the KJV bible, nothing else, no other translation, as these are man made bibles, demon inspired, and have had verses taken out, and changed, as well as words!


How are we meant to save ourselves, if at all?
It seems pretty hopeless right now!


Well, you can always pick up a bible, and see if there’s hope in there!
And it’s not hard to ask your Father for hope and guidance, BEFORE you read it!
Just a thought….


Stay positive!
Think positive!
Let peace on earth be part of your heart desires!
Your wishes and desires are already reality!


kann mir jemand sagen, wer der Inhaber dieser Seite ist?


Shouldn’t we take responsibility for our own creation?
That is an oxy moron.
If there was ever nothing, could there ever be anything?


I know everything here is true, it is written you have to ask God to open your eyes and pray for the rich and evil good will do the test.
Not to worry only trust in the Almighty and put on the armour of god


Vеry soon this site will be famous amid all blog users, due to it’s nice articleѕ or reviews


Hello Sam Parker, I have ready several of your articles.
They are very interesting/enlightening and seem factual.
I would like to know who you are, I would like to know more about you.
I can’t find any information regarding Sam Parker associated with Behind the News Network.
I am highly skeptical about what I hear and read, especially these last 4 years.
I really would like/need to know about you.


Sam – would really love to have you join The Power Hour for an interview regarding this article.
Please reach out to me (Kathryn) support@thepowerhour.com


Where is the original document: scenarios-for-the-future-of-technology-and-international-development?

Download it here (52 pages) and for the short version (page 18) for the lockstep scenarion only): https://rforresistance.wordpress.com/2021/02/10/the-lockstep-scenario/


If even the RF had worked out in their Lock Step scenario that stopping flights early in a pandemic would help stop its spread, why didn’t any of them, or other analysts, speak up when precisely that happened in early 2020?
All Western politicians delayed shutting down air traffic from China.


