
The Coronavirus COVID-19 Pandemic: The Real Danger is “Agenda ID2020”


This virus is now in the wild.
It will further mutate and be more deadly to the elderly.
At the same time, it may require persistent medication for the young.
Perfect for solving the pension problem and keeping people chained to the economic system.
Where the fuck are the good scientists?


China has just officially accused the Americunts of biowarfare:

It is official now as I had posted on day one of this Americunt and Zionist biowarfare project:

China government spokesman says U.S. military has brought virus to China

BEIJING, March 12 (Reuters) - A spokesman for China's Foreign Ministry stated on Thursday the U.S. military has brought the coronavirus to the Chinese city of Wuhan, which has been hardest hit by the outbreak, doubling down on a war of words with Washington.


This article is certainly food for thought when the fear mongering is obviously so blatant and contrived.


tytytyt spot on spot on spot on......i have been trying to explain to the 99% donkeyss and sheep here About the 1% that Control us to a large extent, and their plan to govern our planet with a one world Government.

Here is your Quote

"We are moving towards a totalitarian state of the world.
This is part of Agenda ID2020 – and these steps to be implemented now – prepared since long, including by the coronavirus computer simulation at Johns Hopkins in Baltimore on 18 October 2019, sponsored by the WEF and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation."

the probelm with the 99% idotic donks and sheep is, that they still believe in good and bad,,, black and white ie.
good Russia, bad Russia good uk bad uk good USA bad usa

they are ALLLLLLL in the boat AGAINST us 99%...this also includes YOUR 99% here beloved treacherous Zionist bibi cock sucking PUTIN u dum fucking morons here!


I under stand what your saying but i don't think Russia is 100 percent on board this boat your talking about remember Putin saying at a press conference pedophiliea is becoming a problem in our country we are going to crack down on it im sure your aware of what he was talking about and that means there is at least some willingness to at least try do do something about this world situation in Russia at least


The Jew fucks and Americunt arseholes started this coronavirus bio-project that has backfired on them.


Of course usa have injected wuhan bats with the virus.
Chinese gvt always tell the truth.
North korea have the proof and all chinese bots here have it too


Tell me again why I should believe 'you'.
History proves the US did it to the Native Americans with small pox infected blankets.
North Korea has proof in its museums full of evidence of what US did to their people with Chemical Bio weapons in the 1950's.
Agent Orange in Vietnam ?
Leaving USS Liberty unprotected while their own were being machine gunned in the life boats!
Nano-Thermite residue in the 9/11 dust!

Anyone besides me see a pattern?


And BTW I had forgotten the anthrax sent in the mail to the senators and house of representatives members when some of them were wavering in their decision to vote against the Patriot act.
Funny how those terrorists sending just magically gave up on their mission very soon after the bill had passed.
America the land of the free!!!


I have no way of verifying this report; but it raise serious questions if it is true.
We are told it will take up to 2 +years for a vaccine by western experts.
Strange that the Israelis are "days away from having a vaccine"

https://economictimes.india...


They did it with sars too and bird flu.
Its all cia big plan


Black death too


The bubonic plague too.. oh wait there was no cia back then


How about in 1950?

In 1950, the U.S. released a bioweapon in San Francisco, the project was called "Operation Sea Spray"

Operation Sea-Spray was a 1950 U.S. Navy secret experiment in which Serratia marcescens and Bacillus globigii bacteria were sprayed over the San Francisco Bay Area in California.
Beginning on September 26, 1950, the crew of a U.S. Navy minesweeper ship spent six days spraying Serratia marcescens into the air about two miles off the northern California coast.

From September 20 to 27, 1950, the U.S. Navy released the pathogens off the shore of San Francisco.
Based on results from monitoring equipment at 43 locations around the city, the Army determined that San Francisco had received enough of a dose for nearly all of the city's 800,000 residents to inhale millions of particles each day during the week of spraying.
On October 11, 1950, eleven residents checked into Stanford Hospital for very rare, serious urinary tract infections.
Although ten residents recovered, one patient, Edward J. Nevin, died three weeks later.

This was one of hundreds of bioweapon simulations carried out in the 1950s and 1960s

https://www.businessinsider...


It is a fact that the US attacked North Korea and China with biological weapons designed in the US by captured Japanese Bio Weapons scientists after WW2.

https://thedailycoin.org/20...

https://uk.video.search.yah...


If my totally average 14 year old kid can figure it out, surely older minds can


watch till the end before you comment lol


Peter needs to get back onto his meds.


China knows why they burn the dead, nobody knows if Amerikunt virus resurrect the dead after a while.


Russia is going to contain the zombies in special facilities https://meduza.io/en/news/2...


