
How Long Does Immunity Last After COVID-19?
What We Know



Currently, the two vaccines authorized for use in the United States are from Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna.
The Moderna vaccine is about 94 percent effective at preventing COVID-19, and the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine is 95 percent effective.

Both vaccines work by helping the body develop immunity to the virus that causes COVID-19 without you having to get COVID-19.

Both vaccines require two shots a few weeks apart to get full protection.

Once you have full vaccine protection, your body is left with a supply of T cells as well as B cells that will remember how to fight the virus in the future, just like they do with natural immunity.

However, it usually takes a few weeks for the body to produce T cells and B cells after vaccination.
During this time, it’s possible to acquire the virus that causes COVID-19 until your body can provide protection.

In a Q A with the World Health Organization (WHO), Dr. Katherine O’Brien, professor at Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, said, "We see a good immune response that kicks in within about two weeks of that first dose.
And it’s really the second dose that then boosts that immune response, and we see immunity get even stronger after that second dose, again within a shorter period of time after the second dose."

Researchers still don’t know how long immunity lasts from the vaccines and if follow-up shots will be needed, especially to protect against new variants of the COVID-19 virus.

Studies are underway.

We’re sharing five stories of how people like you coped with the challenges of the pandemic.
Learn how they built resilience and found joy over the past year, and get tips for your own life, too.

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) states that "nearly all immune-competent individuals will develop an immune response following SARS-CoV-2 infection," and that in some people, antibodies can be detected within the first week of illness onset.

However, there are different antibody tests, and they each detect different components of immunity protection mentioned above.

For instance, some tests look for antibodies that recognize the protein nucleocapsid, which is found in the coronavirus, while others look for antibodies that protect against the coronavirus spike protein (these antibodies are triggered by the Moderna vaccine.)

While a positive antibody test shows that you had the virus that causes COVID-19 or the vaccine, it still doesn’t give a clear understanding of your immunity to the virus.

Dr.
Steven Sperber, interim chief of the division of infectious diseases at Hackensack University Medical Center, said that he does not know if having a positive antibody test means you’re immune to the virus.

He explained that, for some infections, antibodies might protect against reinfection.

For others, they may not prevent reinfection, but symptoms may be milder.

In yet other cases, antibodies may provide no protection at all.

Also, some test results may be "false positives."
This occurs when a person has been exposed to a similar virus detected by the test, but those antibodies don’t protect the new coronavirus.

Finally, Sperber said, we don’t know how long any protection might last.

However, a study published on February 24, 2021 in the journal J

AMA Internal Medicine

, found that people who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 antibodies based on commercial antibody tests may be at decreased future risk of SARS-CoV-2 infection.

The study looked at data of more than 3.2 million people in the United States with a SARS-CoV-2 antibody test.
Researchers evaluated evidence of SARS-CoV-2 infection among people with positive versus negative test results for antibodies.

Researchers noted that while the risk reduction was not seen in the first 30 days after an initial antibody test, it became pronounced after 30 days and progressively strengthened through the 90-day observation period and beyond.

Cases of reinfection with the new coronavirus have been reported but remain rare​, according to the CDC.

Though infection with the virus and getting vaccinated can provide some immunity, it is still not fully understood for reinfection.

Studies are in the works to understand:

the likelihood of reinfection

how often reinfection occurs

how soon after the first infection can reinfection take place

how severe cases of reinfection are

who might be at higher risk for reinfection

what reinfection means for a person’s immunity

if a person is able to transmit SARS-CoV-2 to other people when reinfected


​Until more is known, in addition to getting vaccinated, the CDC recommends wearing masks, physical distancing, and washing hands frequently to help reduce exposure to the virus or spreading it to others.

Additional reporting by Nancy Schimelpfening.


