
Do you know anyone that has or had Covid-19?


If you do, what were their symptoms and age?

I searched for this and could not find it.

I sent an email to 300 people I know, only 2 of them said they know somebody.
One had it in early December and had cold symptoms for about 5 days.
The doctor just called her and told her on 6/20.
Why are they retesting blood 6 months later?
Seems suspicious to me.

The other one just knew someone who tested positive for it and never had symptoms.

I think this is all very fishy.
I am not trying to politicize this issue.


I tested positive on March 13th, I donate (sell) my plasma twice a week, they pay me $100.00 per trip.
This location probably averageS around a 100 per day Since not everyone donates twice a week I’m guessing 400 - 500 per week.
There are four of us that donate.
I know of one other that’s had it, and a girl that’s goes to my gym, heard she had it.So counting me 5 for sure a 1 rumored.

It was the worst 3 weeks Of my life that I can remember.


Tyrone said: I tested positive on March 13th


symptoms?
age?


Son was sick for a week, thought he had the flu .
Was early before they declared it a pandemic.
He works in a hospital and went to Dr who said it was probably flu.
He was recently tested and has antibodies.
He offered to donate blood but after filling out the question sheet was told that because of the countries he went to in the Army and the vaccinations he had to have that he was not eligible to give blood.


I remember a loss of taste or maybe the food was bland that night, other than that I never had any symptoms, I’m 64.


My brother-in-law currently has COVID.
He’s 56 and had a kidney transplant about 25 years ago.
He was having major trouble breathing.
He was in ICU last week and given oxygen but was not on a ventilator.
He is now out of ICU but still in the hospital.
They are saying he will be discharged tomorrow but at this moment is still on O2.
Found out yesterday his wife has tested positive but is non-symptomatic, so far.
It sucks.


A friend of mine (mid 40s) in Louisiana had it.
He didn't have a fever or any of the usual symptoms, but instead went to the doctor because his eyes hurt.
He's a cable installer and presumably caught it at a customer home/business.



skippyfin said: .
I think this is all very fishy.
I am not trying to politicize this issue.

It's not fishy at all.

It's simple physics.

COolds, flu, cancer etc have all had hundreds of years to spread/saturate their host (humans) Although airline travel makes it so that a parasite can get round the world in under a day:

This country is HUGE.

It takes time to saturate the herd.

I know people i have known for years working in hospitals who have delt with it first hand.
That's good enough for me.



Numbers are inflated, if you have COVID and die in a shooting, wreck, heart attack, cancer etc: etc: it’s listed as Covid.
This is the biggest farce that government has ever pulled on the world.
Has anyone died of the flu this year, don’t believe I’ve seen a report on that?
Believe what makes you feel all warm and comfortable.
Follow the money, hospitals receive funds foe EVERY Covid patient they admit.
More and more people are easily duped.

I don’t believe Cancer is contagious.
So maybe consider the source...


This is all 2nd hand.
A guy I knew apparently had it back in march.
He was in the hospital for a little while and on oxygen.
They sent him home with oxygen.
I saw him last week and he looked well.
His wife was presumably exposed to to it too.
She ran a low fever one day.
I'd say they're in their 30s and overweight.


The Chinese virus is not a hoax but is a bit of a scam.
It's very real but I believe that it has been seriously exaggerated and lied about for political purposes.
I also heard a couple days ago that the hospitals in Houston have large numbers of new chinese virus victims since everything is finally open.

I know of no one who has been infected anywhere and I know a lot of people in different places.
I know no one who has bothered to be tested except for my ex who... think about this... lives in Brooklyn, NY, which has been hit very hard, where the testing places would be where sick people go to get tested and others who think they may have been infected.
He's also a bit of a hypochondriac.
So he felt compelled to get tested not once but twice.
LOL.
Both tests negative since he rarely goes out these days.
I told him that there are reasons why he's my ex and he said that all his exes live in Texas.

In my area, it's rare to see masks these days and as far as I know, still no deaths in the immediate area.


I don't know the person, she worked with my husband and they were both furloughed April 10.
Female, 35-40, white, married, otherwise healthy as far as we know.
She went to her Dr the week before Mother's Day for an allergy shot.
She had not previously suffered from allergies but this was her first spring in OK.
She was surprised to find she had a temp when the nurse took it.
(There are her symptoms) The Dr told her he was sure it was more than allergies and sent her to be tested.
Hubby asked his mom (who also worked there until 6-1 and was not furloughed) if she had heard how she was and she had recovered.
Her husband (no kids) did not get it or he didn't know he had it, if he did.
I haven't heard if they have been antibody tested.


My friend, currently domiciled in a northern state, did have COVID-19, back in February-March.
He was a recently retired bus driver - no doubt plenty of contact back in Chi-town.

His symptoms - hmmmm.
He fell down a flight of stairs and laid there for a day or two before discovery (silent hypoxia?).
Was put into intensive care, yada yada, for around 20 days.
After release, he was still very weak for several weeks afterward.


It went through my secretary's husband's family.
They count as people I know because I grew up in the same neighborhood and his parents were good friends with my parents decades before I ever met my secretary.

He lost both grandmothers - one in late 90's in poor health, the other late 80's in excellent health for being in her late 80's.
One uncle was in ICU for two weeks on O2 but no vent.
He's 69 and a heavy smoker and was just moved to a step down unit doing better.
One aunt had it and his father had it - both in late 60's with just a mild cough.

Two guys in my department (out of about 75) had it.
Both young guys and both had normal flue-like symptoms, took two weeks off, and were cleared to come back to work.

That's 7 people I know.
Two elderly did not make it.
One late 60's hospitalized but expected to recover.
Two late 60's mild symptoms.
Two late 20's to early 30's flue like symptoms.


My BIL and his wife had it in April, her dad lived with them, he was 89 and died in the hospital after a few days on a ventilator.
I'm not sure they are back to work yet.

It blew through work and people close to my area had it, exit stage left...
I moved my retirement date up by 3 weeks.
When I left out of 200 in the facility, there were 14 cases.
I know a few people by name, one guy walked around coughing all over for 3 weeks before he was diagnosed.

This one local family, 3 kids and 2 adults all had it, one of the kids has severe asthma and wound up in the hospital.
All have made a recovery, not sure if they are 100%.

I'm 65 and am still sticking close to home, got plenty to keep me busy.


My niece's hubby had it.
He's a doctor in Milwaukee.
He had only mild symptoms.
My niece and their dogs didn't catch it.

I don't know anyone else who had it.


Two of my friends, one 50 one 70, went to the hospital ER feeling ill.
Both tested and neither had it, the 50 yr old was tested 3 times.
He had a somewhat rare tick borne virus and the 70 yr old had the seasonal flu.
He did have the flu shot previously.
He was in for 4 days.
The 50 yr old was in only one day.


My coworker and his wife

Mid 30's healthy folks

She lost her sense of smell, headaches, sore throat, and a cough

He has had mild headaches for about a week and said "I'll take this over the flu anyday"

Take this fwiw


A co-worker friend tested positive about a week ago.
We communicate by email, and he is somewhat a happy camper.
With almost no symptoms, he is binge watching TV.


My wife's cousin had it and was diagnosed positive.
She is 45, a nursing supervisor in a NJ hospital.
I don't know a lot about her symptoms other than a low grade fever and a dry, hacking cough.
One of her daughters contracted it from her, with the same symptoms.
The cousin was back at work within 2 weeks.


