
How COVID-19 Started From a Meme


The Truth Behind COVID-19


Introduction


We all are experiencing hardships when its come down to the global shutdown due to COVID-19.
It feels that the word has slowed down and we do not see the end in sight.
We all know what is happening, but what really happened with COVID-19?

Background Information


If you have paid any attention to meme culture in the last two years, I am sure you are aware of the fake area 51 raid.
This was a joke made up by Matty Roberts which was meant to be satirical.
He posted on Facebook that we should all storm area 51 because the government would not be able to stop all of us.
This post blew up and within weeks all the hotels in the surrounding area were fully booked for September 30

th

, the designated Raid day.
Even though the government urged the public not to turn up and raid the facility, people showed up anyways.
It ended up being more of a gathering, but still close enough to have the government on its toes.
We thought it was just a funny prank, but our government was not having it.

What’s felt weird


I will start by asking, has anything felt normal since then?
The majority will answer no, it has not.
That is probably because since then, we have experienced world war scares, Australia burning, crazy California wildfires, murder hornets, extreme political unrest and worst of all, COVID-19.
Can one honestly believe this is all just a coincidence?
Some of this is due to worldly problems.
Climate change sparked the wildfires, war scares are normal through the disagreement of nations, but a worldwide pandemic shutting the world down for over a year with all the modern advancements in medicine?
I think not.

Government Control


This is what REALLY happened.
The government realized that a combined American Nation is way too powerful to handle.
Sure, they have a strong military, but it is vastly outnumbered.
The turn out for the area 51 raid was huge.
This was a stupid joke and yet there was such a big unification.
Imagine if the American people were to unite for a more realistic cause.
Even if only half the nation were to unite, that is still more than one hundred million people.
How does a nation control an uneasy population?
Well they figured they could not and needed a strategy to test how fast they could implement a tactic to quickly control the population.
That is where COVID started.

What went wrong


For those of you who were on a college campus during the Fall of 2019, did you ever randomly feel sick?
Well personally, I did.
This is because this is where they released the virus.
The reason was to quickly get the younger population immune through smaller doses.
That is why COVID does not really affect the younger generation.
So why is it a global pandemic, as well as a deadly one.
This is due to the fact of foreign exchange programs and vacation.
It then mutated because it could no longer be controlled.
As soon as the government realized that COVID could be spread globally, they went with their favorite scapegoat, China.
This is extremely easy to pass off as realistic because everyone thinks China is sketchy to begin with.
Why else would China be denying allegations of starting COVID?
They did not start it, that is why.
Our government did in an attempt to control its nation.


