
A Possible Effective Treatment for Coronavirus (COVID-19)



Elon Musk has just tweeted this article.
It would seem that it is an effective treatment for Covid-19.


Article with links to References

https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vTi-g18ftNZUMRAj2SwRPodtscFio7bJ7GdNgbJAGbdfF67WuRJB3ZsidgpidB2eocFHAVjIL-7deJ7/pub

The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and World Health Organization (WHO) have not published treatment measures against COVID-19; however, in a recent report by Dr.
James.
M. Todaro and Gregory J. Rigano, Esq.
which was recently tweeted by Elon Musk, the two wrote that medical centers are starting to have issues with traditional protocols, explaining that treatments, and ideally preventative measures, are needed, and believe the United States, Europe, and the rest of the world can learn from South Korea and China, noting the two countries are leading the way in diagnostic, treatment, and preventative options, since having had more exposure and experienced a longer period of time to study and understand the virus.

He has followed up the tweet with: "Hydroxychloroquine probably better"

Guidelines from South Korea and China show that chloroquine is an effective antiviral therapeutic treatment against COVID-19.
According to their reports, those infected by COVID-19 are experiencing fast recovery times and shorter hospital stays when using chloroquine in tablet form.
In the United States, the CDC has found in lab tests that chloroquine is effective as a preventative measure against coronavirus, and appropriate to use while waiting for a vaccine to be developed.

Chloroquine, available globally, has been used since 1945 to prevent and treat malaria, autoimmune and various other conditions, including HIV.
It is reportedly inexpensive and is available by prescription in the United States.
As well, the CDC reports it can be prescribed to adults and to children and can be taken safely by pregnant and nursing women.

The treatment guidelines of both South Korea and China against COVID-19 are generally consistent, outlining chloroquine as an effective treatment.
According to research, "Data from chloroquine studies showed ‘certain curative effect’ with ‘fairly good efficacy’...patients treated with chloroquine demonstrated a better drop in fever, improvement of lung CT images, and required a shorter time to recover compared to parallel groups."


