
Nurse who made accusations about horrific NYC COVID patient abuses in hospitals


The nurse who made the above accusations is on the State of Nevada Board of Nursing, Nursing Practice Advisory Committee.

Nicole Sirotek, RN, She made the trip to NYC to help when NYC was begging for more medical staff.
She deserves to have her warnings heard and investigated.
Not rejected with knee-jerk reactions.

"Nobody is listening.
They don't care what is happening to these people.
They don't." - Nicole Sirotek, RN

Link to Nevada Board of Nursing LINK

Link to her video describing NYC hospital abses: LINK

This post was edited on 5/5 at 12:35 pm


That still does not equal doctor.
Does she deserve to be heard?
Certainly


It puts her a cut above the Nurse Jackie Tik Tok crew who are the face of nursing at the moment.



quote:That still does not equal doctor

You don't have to be a doctor to recognize a death camp mentality, Slick



Then she needs to clean up her nasty mouth.
IF she is on a nursing board then she should know the proper channels to make complaints.
Certainly an uncensored you tube video is not the proper channel.



quote:That still does not equal doctor.
Does she deserve to be heard?
Certainly

Help me understand your position.
Why does one need to be a doctor to witness abuses and be able to report them?
Nurses are supposed to be familiar with procedures and treatments.
So if something stood out as an obvious infraction to her, I don't know why we need to qualify that she isn't a doctor.




quote:It puts her a cut above the Nurse Jackie Tik Tok crew who are the face of nursing at the moment.

Why?
Are doctors doing similar things to patients in hospitals you are familiar with?
Standard procedure in 2020 medical practice?

At least she has the raw courage to warn a nation

This post was edited on 5/5 at 12:10 pm



Is this the woman accusing NY hospitals of being racist?



quote:That still does not equal doctor.
Does she deserve to be heard?
Certainly

The opinion of a experienced RN on the treatment of patients is probably more valid than a MD.



I would expect a higher level of professionalism.
In her video she immediately stated that the oversight agencies don’t care.
Has she approached those agencies?
Does she have documented complaints logged?

If not did she go strait to posting videos for internet points?


She is on a State Nursing board.
I would guess you have never been through a Joint Commission or CMS survey.
As a Director of Pharmacy I have been through many.
Nursing Leadership is heavily involved.
They know plenty about Standards of Care.



quote:Is this the woman accusing NY hospitals of being racist?

NO.
She is the nurse who is accusing NYC hospitals of Murdering patients.




quote:The opinion of a experienced RN on the treatment of patients is probably more valid than a MD.

Most folks who apply Appeals to Authority logical fallacies seem to think that someone with letters behind their name are better at reading and critical thinking than other people who don't have letters behind their name ... but usually nothing could be further from the truth.

Piled High and Deep ... inability to critically think but usually well read and relies on consensus vs.
intuition ...



Why did she say black lives don’t matter to these people?


Then why not go through the channels of reporting the complaints to the state health Department, Joint Commission or CMS?

I find it extremely difficult to believe she reported potential wrongful deaths and JCO said nah we’re good.



quote: If not did she go strait to posting videos for internet points?

This is 2020 not 1955.
An effective YouTube video could save lives, NOW.
Formal complaints may or may not be reviewed within the next year or two.

Judging by the support that is mounting for her in Nevada, there will be complaints filed... aplenty.




quote:Why did she say black lives don’t matter to these people?

Was that one of the many things she reported?
Probably true, if she said it.



She is some bastion of truth or a prog looking for hero status?

You think NYC, prog heaven, is a racist city?

This post was edited on 5/5 at 12:21 pm



quote:You think NYC, prog heaven, is a racist city?

You have never lived in NYC.
Bless your heart.




quote:Was that one of the many things she reported?

Wait, you didn’t watch her now deleted video?



