
G2Voice Broadcast #188 – Letter to President Trump and Response to FDA/FTC about their attack on our Sacraments!
4-19-20


Tricking people into drinking bleach as a cure for illness.
You are evil.


I have taken the sacraments according to protocols for over two years.
Moringa/MMS2 with meals and 6 drop maintenance dose at bed time.
I am not tricked or harmed.
No fool would drink bleach.
That is a blatant lie.
We take chlorine dioxide.
I am 63 in thriving health and no harm.
Never had a sickness since high school.
You are either lacking knowlage, listening to deceivers or WILLINGLY deceiving people away from proven healing.
That my friend is true EVIL.


The "sacraments"?
Do you realize what you're saying?
Drinking chlorine dioxide isn't doing anything for you.
I dare you to try and go off of it for a couple of months, and then come back when you don't have headaches and aren't vomiting anymore.
I've never drank that trash in my whole life, and I'm still alive.
It's people like you that think they can drink something and it'll cure all their sicknesses.
It makes me sick to think that this all started because people wanted to do their own thing instead of follow the Roman Catholic Church.


Many thousands of people are laughing at your comment.
They, unlike you have researched this and taken the MMS1 and have been totally cured of their disease.
I can see the "chip on your shoulder" with the "Roman Catholic Church" remark.
Hasn't your church taught you to be kind, loving, compassionate, tolerant?.
Mine did.
All my previous churches did.
So did/does my years of biblical research and study.
Do you read it or do you just believe what your priest tells you it says?

It may help you to know we are a "Health" Church not a "religious" church.
We are not in competition or seeking "converts" from your RCC, We seek to keeps our temple clean as the Bible says we should.
Common since tells you to do that as well.
We educate people who wish to know about how to remain healthy.
To eat right and cleanse the body of the toxins you put in your body temple.
The innate body intelligence GOD designed then cures what is causing Dis-ease.
It really is that simple with very few exceptions.

There is little reason to argue with a person who is so totally misinformed.
I will pray for you.
As to "Do you realize what you're saying?"
I know precisely what I am saying.
It's backed up by a great many hours of research and study.
Does your identity with RCC trigger you with our use of sacrament?
Too bad it is a holy sacrament to us and your opinion is not relevant.

"I dare you to try and go off of it for a couple of months, and then come back when you don't have headaches and aren't vomiting anymore."

What a silly comment.
I have NEVER had any "side effect" using Chlorine Dioxide (MMS1).
Never once and I don't know of anyone who has.
I have no dis-ease and haven't even had a cold since high school.
I am 63 years old and in thriving health.
I have taken the protocol 1000 just to have done it plus detox a little.
I practice what I preach That is 3 drops activated (Chlorine Dioxide") diluted in 4-6 ounces of pure water.
No "side effect".
I am on the maintenance dose of 6 drops and no "side effect".
Just radiant thriving health as GOD wants us to have.

FAKE media fueled by criminal Pharmaceutical Cabal trolls out stories of fools who might drink stuff ignorantly but EVERY ONE we educate uses time tested proven PROTOCOLS ONLY.
Thousand have been healed world wide, THOUSANDS!!!.
Not one harmful side effect.
Do you know that medical errors {{{{{third-leading}}}}} cause of death in America.
MMS1 has never harmed a single human being.
Man, Woman, Child, or animal.
Yes it cures animals better the people.

We even have the starting procedure which dilutes the standard dosing by 1/2 or more %.
No possible "side effect".
A few go ahead and start too strong a dose and you just cut it in half and continue.
Your body tells you what is correct for you.

OK nothing more to say to you.
Go do the research and post your proofs if you can find them.
It's easy to rant in triggered emotional programed responses but backing it up with logical thinking and documentation is a little more work.
This response is more for anyone else who might read it.
They might just go and look for them selves and be very presently surprised at what they discover.

GOD bless all


Alright, you wanted the research, right?
"Higher exposures can cause a build-up of fluid in the lungs (pulmonary edema), a medical emergency, with severe shortness of breath.
* Chlorine Dioxide is a HIGHLY FLAMMABLE and REACTIVE gas and a DANGEROUS FIRE and EXPLOSION HAZARD.," from https://nj.gov/health/eoh/r...

"Chlorine dioxide is not a cure or treatment for medical ailments, including but not limited to autism, HIV, malaria, hepatitis viruses, influenza, common colds, and cancer.
Claims that the ingestion of chlorine dioxide, often advertised as "Miracle Mineral Solution" or MMS, will cure these or other ailments are false.," from https://www.chemicalsafetyf...

"Most people will not be exposed to chlorine dioxide or chlorite in amounts large enough to damage other parts of the body, but if you were, you might experience shortness of breath and other respiratory problems because of damage to the substances in blood that carry oxygen throughout the body.," from https://www.atsdr.cdc.gov/p...

Also, saying that you're not a "religious" church nullifies your church's whole argument that your 1st Amendment has been violated.
All you're doing is gathering together and calling water disinfectant a sacrament.
It's really sad to be honest, because this garbage didn't exist a few hundred years ago.
Now everyone wants to have their own church, because they know whats the right interpretation of the Bible.
I will be praying for you, that you may be enlightened as to what the true Sacraments are.


My responses in []

Alright, you wanted the research, right?

OK a teaching on discernment follows: The article states

"This Fact Sheet is a summary source of information of all

potential

and

most severe

health hazards that may result from exposure".

That may well be perfectly true under worst case scenarios but irrelevant to our sacrament usage.
All the "scientific data" is from these worst case possibility perspectives.
I know a case where a woman died from drinking too much water in a radio sponsored contest event.
All things can be harmful if miss used.


"Higher exposures can cause a build-up of fluid in the lungs (pulmonary edema), a medical emergency, with severe shortness of breath.

First I am in complete agreement with the article on

" Higher exposures…",

However we never take "higher exposures" only 1-3 drops diluted in 4-8 onuses of pure water.
Which is far BELOW any possible harmful side effect.


* Chlorine Dioxide is a HIGHLY FLAMMABLE and REACTIVE gas and a DANGEROUS FIRE and EXPLOSION HAZARD.," from https://nj.gov/health/eoh/r...

This was new information for me.
Thank you very much.
I am also learning in life.
Every day is in the classroom of life.
I am a curious person and I do not just believe everything an "authority figure" tells me.
I am aware of the huge conspiracy to crush true healing modalities from the people steering them to big Pharma-Nazi-Cabal profits.
So I did a little "scientific experiment".
I mixed my 3 drops of Clo2 and struck a match after it had a chance to "gas" a bit.
As you can see there was no reaction to the gassing.
It was gassing because I could smell it if I put my nose close to it and breathed it in very gently.
I want to add that I don’t claim this is false under what ever conditions they were testing but it is no relevant to our sacramental usage.

View Hide

https://uploads.disquscdn.c...

"Chlorine dioxide is not a cure or treatment for medical ailments, including but not limited to autism, HIV, malaria, hepatitis viruses, influenza, common colds, and cancer.
Claims that the ingestion of chlorine dioxide, often advertised as "Miracle Mineral Solution" or MMS, will cure these or other ailments are false.," from https://www.chemicalsafetyf...

THIS IS A MALICIOUS WILLFUL LIE.
THEY KNOW IT IS A MIRACULOUS CURE THAT IF WIDELY KNOW WOULD COMPLETELY DEVOLVE THE MEDICAL PHARMACEUTIC INDUSTRY.
There would only remain the hospitals for trauma care treating broken bones, cuts, diagnostic tools etc… Read for yourself the thousands of people who have cured those very dis-eases.
Please don’t be deceived and lied to.
I for one will no longer be led about with a ring in my noes like a submissive slave sock puppet.
I am created in the image of GOD and I have been given discernment by GOD because I humbly ask HIM for it.
https://mmstestimonials.co/ text https://mmstestimonials.co/... Can you believe what your eyes can see?
Please awaken and the truth shall set you free!!!!!!!!!!!!!
Also I read the entire article and it supports the documentation that it is widely used and found safe.
Only the healing aspect of Clo2 is suppressed.

"Most people will not be

exposed to chlorine dioxide or chlorite in amounts large enough to damage other

parts of the body, but if you were, you might experience shortness of breath

and other respiratory problems because of damage to the substances in blood

that carry oxygen throughout the body.," from https://www.atsdr.cdc.gov/p...

From

the article "When a substance is released either from a

large area, such as an industrial plant, or from a

container, such as a drum or bottle…"

Note

condition they say could be harmful and ask yourself if 3 drops diluted in 4-8

ounces of pure water applies.

From that article "If you are exposed to chlorine

dioxide or chlorite, many factors will determine whether

you will be harmed.
These factors include the dose (how much), the duration

(how long), and how you come in contact with them.

You must also consider any other chemicals you are exposed to and your age, sex, diet, family traits, lifestyle, and state of health.
How are these conditions relevant to our sacramental use of this product?

Also, saying that you're not a "religious" church

nullifies your church's whole argument that your 1st Amendment has been

violated.
All you're doing is gathering together and calling water disinfectant

a sacrament.
It's really sad to be honest, because this garbage didn't exist a

few hundred years ago.
Now everyone wants to have their own church, because

they know whats the right interpretation of the Bible.
I will be praying for

you, that you may be enlightened as to what the true Sacraments are.

I

am always grateful for others prayers on my behalf.
The holy spirit interpret

into what GOD hears.

Romans

8:26 In the same way the Spirit also

helps our weakness; for we do not know how to pray as we should, but the Spirit

Himself intercedes for us with groanings too deep for words;

You and your followers: "because they know whats the right interpretation

of the Bible."
No they apparently bast on your statements only know what their priest

tells them it means.
I apply the directive in 2

Timothy 2:15 [Full

Chapter]

Study to

shew thyself approved unto God, a workman that needeth not to be ashamed,

rightly dividing the word of truth.

Definition of church: There are many interpretations,

the original Greek ekklesia

meant "a gathering, assembly" and is the basis for our word

"congregation."
We now falsely think of a building in which people

gather for worship.
And that is what God designed the church to

be—a group of people.
Ref: https://www.compellingtruth....

Ref: https://definitions.uslegal...

and https://definitions.uslegal...

Quote from: Church is a term subject to different usages.
It can refer to all

of Jesus' followers, viewed as a community.
It can also refer to

specific institutions, either the local congregation or a national or

international body.
It can also be used to refer to the building where

those who profess the Christian religion gather for worship.

Many of us are followers of Jesus

but we accep/teach/helpt all people regardless of faith, origin, creed.
we are

a "specific institution", we "are a national or international body"

Therefore we fulfill the legal definition of a church.
And separately, as a

church under common law we are protected by the constitution and no rights are nullified.

Ref: https://definitions.uslegal...

Quote from: The U.S. is a

common law country.
In all states except Louisiana,

which is based on Napoleonic code,…


It's well known that chlorine dioxide is dangerous when breathed in at large enough amounts.
But it does not have the same properties when the gas is in water, or activated with an acid.
It's totally different chemistry.
A clinical trial where men ingested chlorine dioxide for 12 weeks showed no adverse outcome.
If you can't tell the difference between chlorine dioxide gas Vs activated sodium chlorite then you haven't done enough research.

They are also doing a clinical trial on it for covid-19.


It's good if it works., and isn't causing side effects.
How do you know it's working?

Could you describe how Chlorine Dioxide works in the body?
What in our body is it interacting with?
What is it doing?
Or link to somewhere that describes it.


Yes.
They did.
Also, I trust my priest to interpret the Bible better than I can, since they have gone through extensive training that I haven't.
Do you remember the passage about Jesus having righteous anger when there was a market inside of a temple?
Oh, sorry.
I guess that was one of the many books Protestants removed from the Bible.


No true it is in the bible.
Matthew 21:12 [Full Chapter]

[ Cleansing the Temple ] And Jesus entered the temple and drove out all those who were buying and selling in the temple, and overturned the tables of the money changers and the seats of those who were selling doves.

If you studied your bible you would not have made that emotional false remark.
I am not judging you but I am concerned about your opinions being not grounded in fact.
Go and reread for your self that story in your bible.
There is no connection to that event and this discussion of Chlorine Dioxide.
There is no commerce taking place.
The G2church and it's health ministers and providers "give" samples of the sacraments to those who "choose" to donate .
We teach them how to make it themselves and teach them personal responsibility in self healing through the GOD designed miracle temple body.
2 Timothy 2:15

Study to shew thyself approved unto God, a workman that needeth not to be ashamed, rightly dividing the word of truth.
Jesus commanded you, no your priest to study and show your self approved.
There are other verses about looking to another to guide you but I do not wish to trigger your programed responses.
Do a little exploration of your bible and discover wonderful truths to live by.
You are free to have your own opinions bast on what ever you deem suitable.
But what you believe translates into your manifested reality and you have to experience that.
You are obviously a person who seeks to know GOD and that makes us brothers.
We may disagree but that is OK.
We all see through a glass darkly and must navigate incomplete understandings.
1 Corinthians 13:12

For now we see through a glass, darkly; but then face to face: now I know in part; but then shall I know even as also I am known.


You better contact' Bionic Woman' and try to tell her that...I guess it wasn't doing anything for her either.

''Critics, including the FDA, said MMS is nothing more than industrial strength bleach.
But what is it for Wagner?

"I was dumbfounded.
Within a week, I was off the Prednisone.
Within one week, I was just shocked," she said.

She said within weeks the hives disappeared and never came back.''


Then the government must have been tricked too, because by law this is used to purify live blood.
Why would they use bleach to purify live blood?
oh maybe because bleach is Sodium hypochlorite, and not chlorine dioxide.
No matter how many times you repeat the same lie, it will never be true.


It's basic chemistry, dear.... when you mix substances you change their chemical structure...

Sodium chlorite which, when mixed with citric acid as instructed, forms chlorine dioxide (ClO2), a potent form of bleach used in industrial pulp and textile bleaching.

Please do your own research on things like this before just jumping on the bandwagon.
The life you save may be your own...


Oh I see, so when people create this change in the chemical structure, will the result be able to bleach clothing?


If you knew God, you would have discernment which would enable you to recognize truth when it's in front of you.
God help you.


So rightly said.


Some people will do or sell anything to make a dollar, like this... even if it harms others.
Everyone, check with your doctor BEFORE taking anything you find on the internet with claims of magical cures.
Save your money AND your health!


Thing is..this IS a magical cure.
You're probably healthy or you'd try it.


Stupid people should not treat themselves with ANYTHNG.
Stupid people should ALWAYS go to a licensed physician and be given prescription drugs which have serious and deadly side effects.
When those prescription DRUGS make you ill, let your human physician save you.


He’s crazy.


Crazy like a fox...he's wonderful.


how much you getting payed to troll this site !
Leave us alone!If it's so deadly where's the dead bodies!


There was one in Vanuatu - https://web.archive.org/web...


believe me I looked at all info before I took this taking 20 drops right now been on that does for 2 weeks no side effect really !maybe feels like hungry pains !and I do eat a lot after!inflamation in my whole body greatly reduced!
teeth feel amazing!


pretty sure this was a murder!in his story he says she took two drops !highly unlikely 2 drops could have killed her!great scape goat for murder he may have gave her more?Regardless 1 to 2 deaths in 25 years that amazing statistic compaired to other drugs!


nobody tricked her https://abc7.com/news/bioni...


It is NOT bleach.


only an ignorant person talks about bleach instead of dioxide chlorine and confuses bleach with this product.
Completely ignorant !!
I have been using this product for almost 10 years!
thanks my God The WPS saves lives on the cheap!
The FDA is the devil's lobby


Have you ever monitored your blood oxygen levels while using chlorine dioxide?
I notice mine always goes up to 100% when ever I use it.
But in all of the years before this, it never went beyond 99, not even once.
Now with chlorine dioxide, almost every single time it goes to 100% spo2, but this happens more often with CDS, not so much with MMS.


MMS: Unactivated MMS, which is a 22.4% solution of sodium chlorite (NaClO2) in water.
(This is made from 80% sodium chlorite powder or flakes.)
MMS1: Also referred to as activated MMS.
(Note the added "1" to MMS.)
It is MMS (sodium chlorite) plus an activator (food acid).
When the two are mixed together they produce MMS1 (chlorine dioxide [ClO2]).
Read testimonies.
Commentators are blind.
Been on it 45 days w/ amazing results.
Do you really trust the FDA?


Great post.
Thanks for spreading facts.


I wonder how many times it's made you nauseous, not that you'd admit it anyway.
:

Sellers attribute the vomiting, nausea, and diarrhea to the product working, but it is simply the product's toxicity.
[28]

In 2008, a 60-year-old Canadian man was hospitalized after a life-threatening response to MMS.
[20] Following a May 2010 advisory which indicated that MMS exceeds tolerable levels of sodium chlorite by a factor of 200,[21]

In August 2009, a Mexican woman travelling with her American husband on their yacht in Vanuatu took MMS as a preventative for malaria.
Within 15 minutes she was ill, and within twelve hours she was dead.

"MMS is a 28% sodium chlorite solution which is equivalent to industrial-strength bleach.
When taken as directed it could cause severe nausea, vomiting and diarrhoea, potentially leading to dehydration and reduced blood pressure.
If the solution is diluted less than instructed, it could cause damage to the gut and red blood cells, potentially resulting in respiratory failure.
"[24][25]

More dilute versions have potential to do harm, although it is less likely.
The Food Standards Agency has since reiterated their warning on MMS and extended it to include CDS.
[26]

Neither sodium chlorite nor chlorine dioxide have any proven medical benefits of any kind.
The best case scenario is that you dilute it enough that it does nothing.
Worse case you don't dilute it enough and you die.
I beg you to consult a certified medical professional before continuing to use this.


Yours is the typical response of the brainwashed.
To sit there and believe that there is no evidence that MMS actually helps us heal, among millions of people world wide who are healed, well sir, you are plainly WILLFULLY IGNORANT.
That means you are brainwashed sir.
You sound like those new age worshiper's of Satan who tell their little boys that they are really little girl's and vice versa.


Explain what it cures, and how it works, or link me to a page that explains how it works.
Link me to a information on clinical trials that prove how it works.


I'm pretty sure that's you telling your kids, and now you're projecting yourself.
Are you sure that you aren't the brainwashed one here?


I'll take the nausea over having my hair fall out with chemo.
Hope you never need it because you're too indoctrinated by the establishment to do your own research.
God help you.


I'm convinced that many cases of nausea with MMS are caused by the dehydration effect of the distilled water, and then in addition the purging of toxins.
Drinking distilled water on it's own, without any MMS can cause severe dehydration due to the lack of electrolytes.
Mineral or filtered water is better.


You know what, knock yourselves out.
You can be the next Steve Jobs.
If I could be bothered, I could link pages showing and explaining exactly how specific cancer treatments work.
How they interact with cells, and the body's bio-chemistry.
Can you explain *how* MMS works?
Are there any proven studies, that explain the mechanism, how it interacts with the body to cure a specific illness?
Because if not, you might as well be using magic crystals.
You know what they call alternative medicine that's proven to work?
Medicine.


''Neither sodium chlorite nor chlorine dioxide have any proven medical benefits of any kind.''

I guess that explains why preliminary results of a clinical trial with it for Covid-19 show a 97% success rate.
Also, the dehydration and nauseous issues can come from the distilled water.
This can be caused by drinking distilled water on its own.
You make a lot of statements that show you have not looked deeply into this element at all.


Show me the study.
Link it please.
Preferably with any explanation of how the chemical acts in the body.
Please also link to information about it being used to purify blood.


Simply read Jim Humble's book "The Master Mineral Solution of the Third Millennium".
It explains what you want to know.
Do your research like we have - it could possibly open your eyes to this amazing healing element and save you or someone you know from a crippling/fatal dis-ease or poisoning.
Also see the documentary of people testifying to their healing with MMS which includes the help of the Red Cross to eliminate malaria (which was verified by medical doctors - within 4 hours after taking MMS) at: quantumleap.is


The clinical trial is ongoing, details can be found here along with a little information about how it works in the body.
https://trialbulletin.com/l...

Andreas kalcker mentions the preliminary success of 97% on a Youtube video but it has been removed for ''violating Youtube community guidelines''.
if you don't think there is anything suspicious about that then nothing will make you realise.
In a pandemic, you have a biophysicist posting a video about success and it's removed...

There have been clinical trials on ingestion showing no adverse reactions back in 1982 (12 weeks), but this element gets banned before anyone bothers to study it.
Where is the incentive?
It cannot be patented, and it is very cheap.

Here is the patent for blood purification https://patents.google.com/...

More information on its use for health, and in the clinic can be found here https://andreaskalcker.com/...


Is there any links to Chlorine Dioxide actually being used to treat blood?
Because you can patent anything.
I could patent a system to flush your eyes with vinegar to improve sight, it wouldn't be proof that it works, just proof that I designed it.

I guess I'll wait for the study results, though they're only testing 20 people, the percentage of people with covid that develop severe symptoms is too low for that number to prove anything - it's likely none of those 20 develop severe symptoms anyway.
But maybe they'll increase the numbers after this trial.

I appreciate you making the effort to link to information - I'll give them a read when I have time.


I don't have any links showing that, I saw it long ago and don't remember where now, but I will try to find it again.
Concerning the clinical trial, it will be a small number at first, but I expect it to be sabotaged, or discredited in some way anyway.
Many times Ive seen scientific data and links to old studies removed by websites, and conversations removed by Youtube as well.
One of the videos that was removed was one that tackled the Fda's statement that chlorine dioxide caused damage to red blood cells.
Andreas Kalcker showed video footage from a special microscope showing what happens to the blood when chlorine dioxide is added.
You see 50% additional oxygen in the blood!
IN fact, it reversed the blood problem the Fda said it caused.

A few days later, this video was removed.

Perhaps this is why Andreas Kalcker was calling for Doctors to duplicate the trial internationally and show their results.


"Concerning the clinical trial, it will be a small number at first, but I expect it to be sabotaged, or discredited in some way anyway."

You're already pre-empting the trial not showing what you want it to show.
By default, we assume a claim to be false unless it is proved true.
A claim with value can be proved, or disproved.
If proof showing the claim to be false is not willing to be accepted, the claim is already worthless, because it is impossible to disprove.


All we will ever have left is a bunch of stuff like this https://abc7.com/news/bioni...

I wonder how that can be explained?


It could be explained by any number of things - it wasn't a clinical trial, there were no control groups, there wasn't even a group, as it was only one person.
It does not meet the lowest criteria for proving a medicine works.


Ive identified inconsistencies with Andreas Kalckers statements in other videos about chlorine dioxide, and about details concerning toxicity.
Therefore I no longer consider the clinical trial to hold any significance.

I have however seen personally, things this stuff can do that do not make any sense at all, so there is something about it for sure.
It's just a shame Andreas makes statements that do not hold up when scrutinized.
I think chlorine dioxide will remain to be seen as a joke, but there is more to it.
But it will never be truly studied and all of us will miss out on it's potential.


It's heartening to see you're scrutinising your sources, even ones that support your argument.
If a clinical trial ever shows chloride dioxide to be effective at treating something, and safe, then I would support it.
I think it's completely irresponsible and dangerous to recommend people take a substance before it has been proven to work, and proven safe.
And if people profit from it, then it would be immoral.
I think my reading on this area is done for now, but I know more than when I started, and I wish you the best.


salt salt salt


