
Video: Bill Gates – “You Don’t Have a Choice – Normalcy Only Returns When We Largely Vaccinate the Entire Population”


Wrong


Bill Gates?
You mean the cutthroat monopolistic mega hypocrite globalist POS multi Billionaire that complains American IT workers made too much money and under cut them with H worker visas?
That Bill Gates?


Why?

And what the hell do you have to do with any of this, Bill?


Yeah, I want the blue screen of death vaccine.
Also, covid will mutate and render the "vaccine" useless.
How many coronavirus vaccines have ever been used in human history?

I don’t take medical advice from computer engineers.
I also don’t have doctors advise me on my electrical designs.
Bill Gates can go **** himself.


So he can become king of the world.


gates can’t even keep a virus out of his software.
No way any antivirus pushed by him for use on humans will result in anything except the blue screen of death.


GateXi funded and pushed this Atrocity.
Why is he walking free, outside of a prison.


Oh we have a choice.
Actually, lots of choices.
Some are measured in calibers, Bill.


Gates is an expert on viruses.


This isn’t the Black Plague.
And I don’t trust Bill Gates and his vaccine.
I’d rather take my chances with Covid-19.

And while I have your attention, who the h-e-double-hockey-sticks does Bill Gates think he is to be dictating this?
He has no background in the medical field other than making money off it.

He’s not an expert and we’re not fools.


As a woman, I have a right to do whatever I wish with my own body according to the liberal left.
Including abortion should I so please right?
Well, I refuse this shot.
It’s my body and there you go.


I want nothing to do with your normal!


Gates told The Financial Times, "You don’t have a choice… Normalcy only returns when we largely vaccinate the entire population."

Then of course, each person will need to be able to instantly PROVE that they are vaccinated and immune.
And the only ACCEPTABLE proof is a subcutaneous RFID.


("It is impossible to rightly govern a nation without God and the Bible."
George Washington)


I wont be getting his covid vax but am looking into getting the right measles vax since i am in the range of no measles mumps or rubella that i can remember but got the wrong vax.

The working theory being studied is that it may help train your immune system


We do have a choice, Bill.
We have millions of rifles, and trillions of rounds of ammunition.
At some point, this will have to go hot.
They will try to force us.


Some colleges required proof of measles vaccination


** admits that he’s been cooking this up for years, with his good buddies at Wuhan and their funding source, Fauci.


Not taking medical advice from a guy with an Epstein problem.


