
Is coronavirus really becoming weaker as some doctors claim?


coronavirus patient infection


It’s been more than five months since the World Health Organisation (WHO) announced that a new (novel) coronavirus which was infecting people in the Chinese city of Wuhan had been identified.
COVID-19, the disease caused by the SARS-CoV-2, first hit China before spreading to the rest of the world.

It has now infected about 64 lakh people worldwide and 3.8 lakh people have died due to COVID-19.
The US continues to be the worst affected country.

As the pandemic has turned into the biggest health, social and economic crisis the world has faced since World War-2, scientists have learnt more and more about the nature of the virus itself in the past five months.

Earlier optimism that it would fade away in the intense summer months has not met the test of reality.
Temperatures in India have long hit the 40 degree Celsius mark – but the daily infection count is only increasing and the country is still nowhere close to its peak.

Similarly, in the initial weeks of the pandemic it was thought that the infection primarily hits the patient’s lungs.
But we now know that it adversely affects multiple organs of the body, and causes blood clots.

So far no medicine has proven to be very effective against the disease and there is no guarantee that we will have a vaccine anytime soon.
Under such circumstances, with people and governments desperate for good news, claims made by Italian doctors that the virus is getting weaker would expectedly attract a lot of attention.

What are Italian doctors saying?


According to some doctors in Italy, the novel coronavirus is a pale shadow of its earlier self and not as lethal as it once was.

Italy is one of the worst-affected countries in Europe, with 2.4 lakh cases and 33,530 deaths, but as the daily death toll falls, it’s limping back to some kind of normalcy.

Dr. Alberto Zangrillo of Milan’s San Raffaele Hospital, reportedly told the

RAI TV

channel that "the virus clinically no longer exists in Italy".
According to him, recent patients swabs showed an extremely small viral load compared to what it was a month ago.

Why it’s premature to celebrate


Experts from the WHO have, however, warned that there was no solid body of evidence yet to say that the virus was getting less deadly.

"In terms of the transmissibility, that has not changed.
In terms of the severity, that has not changed," Dr. Maria Van Kerkhove, the WHO technical lead for Covid-19 said, as reported by

Courthouse News Service

.

While WHO experts are not entirely dismissing the observations made by the Italian doctors, they are warning that we simply don’t have enough data at the moment to make a claim like this.
Coronavirus cases continue to rise in many parts of the world, and some of the apparent weakening of the virus may well be a result of the various medicines doctors are experimenting with.

Generally speaking, viruses are known to become both weaker or more lethal depending on how they mutate.
While so far there is no reason to believe that the coronavirus is taking on a more ominous avatar, the reverse is not proven either.
So the WHO’s advice for governments and the medical community is: don’t let your guard down.


