
No, There Will NOT a Travel Ban Between New Jersey &amp;amp; New York This Month


NO travel ban between New York state and New Jersey has been planned, despite any internet rumors you may have read suggesting otherwise.

New Jersey’s Office of Homeland Security and Preparedness issued a statement about a bogus letter, which has reportedly made its rounds on the web to remind us that it’s not true.

The bogus letter, which appears to have seals of several government agencies (including the New Jersey State Police, the Department of Homeland Security, and more) alleges that "as of May 10, New York residents will not be permitted to enter New Jersey due to the spread of COVID-19."

New Jersey Department of Homeland Security


The warning letter (which has a lot of typos, by the way) says that those who cannot provide a New Jersey ID will be "taken into custody, and escorted back to New York."

The letter is simply not true.
Of course, in an era where there is a ton of information, it is easy to fall victim to a scam like this… especially since it’s prying on our fears.

There are resources that are available from the state and the federal government to help disseminate the truth.
Here are some of those local resources:

New Jersey’s COVID-19 Hub is constantly updated with the latest information from public officials.
Additionally, it has hundreds of links to resources for residents, business owners, health care professionals, and more.
Click here to visit their website.

The New Jersey Office of Homeland Security and Preparedness has set up a COVID-19 hub online as well.
Their page, which can be accessed by clicking here, offers specific updates about misinformation and rumors.

Plus, these federal government resources are available to help dispel false information:

KEEP READING: These are the top 6 scams connected to the pandemic


1.
Cures, Masks, and Empty Promises


The BBB has received many reports of scammers contacting people, claiming that they have a surefire cure for coronavirus, that the government has been keeping secret.
Or they claim that they can provide you with a supply of masks that never materializes.
The goal, in both cases, is to get your health insurance and/or financial information.
At this point, there is no cure for COVID-19.
And, if you want protective masks, get them from a reputable dealer or make them yourself.

2.
Stealing Your Stimulus


Even before the stimulus checks started going out, scammers were contacting potential victims.
They usually claimed that the resident needed to pay a fee to release their stimulus check (i.e. paying taxes ahead of time), or that they needed to give their bank account info over the phone, to get the direct deposit.
The result could be identity theft or loss of money from bank accounts.

3.
Gone Phishing


The BBB says one of the most common phishing scams is targeting people working from home.
Someone contacts you, claiming to be from IT, and demands access to your computer, to fix a problem.
Or, they may send you to a link that, when clicked on, will give them free reign to all your online information.

4.
Hello, This is NOT Your Government


Impersonating the government is a common scam, and for the pandemic, crooks are using it once again.
Usually, they're claiming that you need to take an online coronavirus test, or that they can give you access to a cure.
If it's by phone, they'll ask for your health and financial information.
If it's in your email, they'll provide a link that will upload malware to your computer.

5.
We Have the Perfect Job for You (for a fee)


With so many people out of work, because of the pandemic, scammers have come up with some pretty convincing work-from-home job offers.
Some even use the names and logos of popular companies.
The scammers may ask for financial info to set up direct deposit, or charge you for training.
Before accepting an offer, don't be afraid to reach out to the real company, using the phone number from the business's actual website.

6.
You Want How Much for Toilet Paper?


I did some online browsing, the other day, for toilet paper.
Not because I needed it, but because I wanted to see how expensive it was.
The price gouging was shocking, and that's the BBB's 6th warning about scams.
Whether it's household items or protective gear, scammers will find a way to charge as much as they can get away with.
Don't fall for it.


