
Does stomach acid kill coronavirus, or is this just another social media hoax?


Not at all.
It is just a social media hoax.
Do NOT try to get your information from social media or even most websites.
Trust medical and government institutions to keep you informed.

Even President Trump suggested a medication that could help with covid-19 .. so far only two reported deaths have occurred from following Trump’s misinformation and taking that medication.
So don’t trust Trump to have a clue either.

This pandemic is too serious to rely on social media for valid information.
Follow the government recommendations seriously and diligently.
No one is immune, and even young people are d


Mortality for COVID-19 appears higher than for influenza, especially seasonal influenza.
While the true mortality of COVID-19 will take some time to fully understand, the data we have so far indicate that the crude mortality ratio (the number of reported deaths divided by the reported cases) is between 3-4%, the infection mortality rate (the number of reported deaths divided by the number of infections) will be lower.
For seasonal influenza, mortality is usually well below 0.1%.
However, mortality is to a large extent determined by access to and quality of health care.
No, antibiotics do not w


The acid, by itself, is not all that strong, only around pH of 2 or around 0.01M.
If you tasted pure 0.01M HCl, your mouth would probably hurt, maybe some light chemical burns (read: first degree burns, not much more than some inflammation), and it'd probably extremely sour, but you wouldn't melt your tongue off.
You'd probably spit it out because of the taste before it can do any permanent damage.

The real power (and danger) of stomach acid comes from the enzymes that work in that acidic environment.
These enzymes speed up the acid's reaction with proteins exponentially, which means that any r


Most bacteria are unable to survive in the stomach.
However, a few types are capable of existing there.
The stomach contains approximately 100 bacteria per milliliter.

Note that most of those consistently encountered in the stomach are specially adapted to the acidic conditions.
For example, Helicobacter pylori produces the enzyme urease.
This hydrolyzes urea into ammonia and carbon dioxide.
The ammonia is a proton acceptor and therefore acts as one of Helicobacter pylori's defenses against the acidic environment.

Interestingly, not just bacteria live in the stomach, but also fungi.
As is depi


