
FACT CHECK: Drinking Colloidal Silver Prevents and Treats Coronavirus?


I have used a sikver solution for years for various health issues like infected guns from a bad tooth, sinus infections (use as nasal spray), any sore throat issues, any kind of infection inside or outside of the body, I have used it on my dogs with great success on ear infections, it is my first go to medicine and I drink about 4 or 5 ounces at a dose.
I have never turned blue.
I use the Silver Biotics brand.
It has no known bad interactions with other meds including other antibiotics.


CORONAVIRUS DRINK COLLOIDAL SILVER


I’ve been using colloidal silver for eight years after I stop taking the flu shot still haven’t had the flu my daughter stop taking the flu shot and got both influenza ANB the collateral silver was enough she needed no antibiotics and she has never been six cents the government doesn’t want you to know how effective This stuff is have and it’s been used Forever before pharmaceutical companies came up with antibiotics and put them out of business they paid for the misinformation


Fortify your immune system to combat Coronavirus

Undeniable double blind study’s indicate this substance will reduce Coronavirus infection by up to 50%.
And its a substance your body already creates: https://palmitoylethanolamideblog.com/flu-common-cold-proven-natural-treatment/ (I already have a little if you need it.)

This works in conjunction with your body’s immune system, much the way colloidal silver does.
Thereby preparing your immune system for fighting a reinfection in your elder years.

In the case of colloidal silver one has only to search the National Institutes of Health and other reputable research institutions to find an abundance of such evidence.
Some examples are:

Inhibitory effect of silver nanomaterials on transmissible virus-induced host cell infections

https://doi.org/10.1016/j.biomaterials.2014.01.054

Silver Nanoparticles as Potential Antiviral Agents

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6264685/

Metal nanoparticles: The protective nanoshield against virus infection.
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24754250

Antiviral and Immunomodulatory Activity of Silver Nanoparticles in Experimental RSV Infection https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6723559/

—————————— "useful in the prevention of virus infections of the respiratory tract of man".
As I read, it works by putting your body on high alert, so you have a head start on any infection.

This is stated again here:https://www.hindawi.com/journals/iji/2013/151028/#conclusions-and-therapeutic-perspective

Given the results of 6 clinical trials in flu and the common cold, seen in the context of the serious criticism on the efficacy and safety of oseltamivir and zanamivir, PEA should be reconsidered by clinicians as a new treatment modality for the flu and respiratory infections due to its documented efficacy and more importantly its very benign side effect profile.
Furthermore, oseltamivir and zanamivir are known to induce resistance; PEA has a very low likelihood of inducing resistance due to its mechanism of action.
Finally, the ease of application of PEA offers the possibility to have a quick therapeutic answer ready in case of a flu epidemic, especially in cases of a mismatch between circulating strains and the recommendations from WHO.


So first off, PEA is not colloidal silver.
Two different things, two different chemicals and two different effects.

Specifically regarding colloidal silver, it does have antiviral properties.
That doesn’t meant it works well in humans.
All the studies you linked were in vitro, or in a Petri dish.
None in actual humans.

Therefore, it irresponsible to say that taking silver is effective against the virus and safe


As is it irresponsible to warn people away from it on the premise that in vitro results cannot be expected for in vivo use.
It is common for in vitro and in vivo effects to be similar and there has been no established proof of damage from orally dosed silver nanoparticles in humans (see https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3877176/ ).

You are proposing threats without any evidence, against actual evidence to the contrary supporting it’s effectiveness combined with a long history of use.


To quote the NIH:

Colloidal silver can cause serious side effects.
The most common is argyria, a bluish-gray discoloration of the skin, which is usually permanent.

Do you have any evidence of it’s effectiveness in vivo?

While some studies may find that in vivo and in vitro effects are similiar, that can’t be a one-size-fits all, especially with Medical advice.

Colloidal silver is not FDA approved and unless there are in depth clinical trials studying it’s effectiveness and safety, it shouldn’t be taken either.


CORONAVIRUS DRINK COLLOIDAL SILVER


