
Studies find having COVID-19 may protect against reinfection


Is it true that if you fight off and infection you then have immunity?
Could that be why we live past the first day we are born?
/sarc


In other words this virus is not unique and the human body creates its own antibodies to protect it from future infections, just like it does against other viruses.


It’s impossible to be "reinfected" if you’ve never had the coof to begin with.

Stupid title from the AP-Pravda.


guaranteed to not get re-infected if you die from it the first time.


The truth is people who have had it are testing positive for the antibodies to it.
How long that lasts or what percentage of infected we do not know, but the antibodies are there.
It’s a good sign.


We’ll duh!
If you once had COVID, and now you don’t, your body on your body obviously produced something that defeated the disease.
The only question is how long that"something" lasts.
It certainly lasted long enough to defeat the disease.
If COVID is like every previous disease in the history of humanity, your body produced antibodies, and they last long enough to protect the world from anilation.
If not, it won’t matter, anyway.


So if you’re under 60 and healthy, covid is safer and better than the vaccine?


It is not new: https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/16/health/coronavirus-immunity-antibodies.html

https://www.msn.com/en-us/health/medical/one-kind-of-immunity-to-the-coronavirus-lasts-at-least-six-months-study-finds/ar-BB1aEWU6?ocid=msedgntp

but is now used to promote the vaccine, and which leads to requiring proof of being shot in order to go to work or shop, etc.

However, I would say having had Covid and recovered is as good as a vaccine (if it works) and may be safer.


Well, I’ll be damned.
Who would have thunk it?
Vaccines were another evil trap for Trump.


72 This yr, other than normal health issues of age, and seasonal Allergies, not been sick at all.
Then I do stay out of Memphis which is a COVID, CRIME HOT SPOT.
All our docs are there, unless forced to we just call for med refills.
ENDO is my bane, Hypothyroidism, Type 2 Diabetes, adjusting the doses becomes a issue on the meds, at least he’s in a mainly high end area.


Thank you captain obvious.
This virus is no different than any other virus in the history of the world.....


So what happens when you get the vaccine to create a immune response to Covid 19,then say in a year or two covid 21 appears and attacks your cells?
The Covid 19 gene vaccine does not recognize the new virus but explodes the immune response from the covid 19 vaccine and good bye you.


No.
I have seen healthy young athletes die if covid rather horribly.
Young and healthy people do get it abs get very sick.
Even if you don’t die from it a couple weeks in the ICU is no picnic either


No.
Where did you study immunology?


In other news studies confirm that the sky is blue


Prevention is always superior to cure.
So, in a word, no



So if you’re under 60 and healthy, covid is safer and better than the vaccine?


The vaccine uses messenger RNA to get cells in your body to produce the spike protein that is on the COVID virus.
This is to train your immune system to recognize and build immunity to the COVID virus.
If your dose of the vaccine is successful, this can eliminate or greatly reduce the virus' ability to infect you.

The virus uses messenger RNA to get cells in your body to produce more full viruses - this is how viruses reproduce in your body and spread the infection.
This comes with potentially very serious illness and potentially death.

The difference is clear.


Thanks for the mRNA theory stuff, but this is a rushed EUA vaccine untested long-term for safety or efficiency.

The alternative is a virus with a 0.0415% chance of hospitalization symptoms (Pfizer study).



Thanks for the mRNA theory stuff


What "theory stuff"?


