
COVID-19 in Spain sewage brings origin of virus a step closer


Wherever the virus finally proves to have arisen, it has never been the practice of civilized people to blame the country of its appearance.
That's just a totally ignorant concept.

Researchers have shown that AIDS appeared first in the Belgian Congo long ago.

Are Belgium or the the modern D R Congo to be somehow blamed?

It is not clear just where polio first arose, but the first big outbreak of it was in the United States.

Are millions of crippled people to blame America?

That kind of thinking - Trump tribal thinking - is on a level with witch trials and burnings at the stake.

Unbelievable how low the contemporary US has sunk.


Instead of searching sewage and trying to deny the obvious FACT.....
They can simply DO the studies they didn't do from the beginning.
Test frozen samples from patients of previous years (up to 20 years) where not any viral agent was identified.
And voualaaaa (I could bet 1 million that they will find many positives) those great scientists/virologists they will understand that what they see for first time DOESN'T mean that didn't existed before 1 or 10 or 100 years ago.
And please stop saying that BS about mutations.
RNA virus mutate all the time but actually they don't change (that is a quote from Fauci). .....
the reason that nobody until now did those pre-required retrospective studies is because their fake plandemic and virologists dogmas will collapse instantly and they will loose billions of profit.


Stop trying to shift the blame.


See, in science, everything is based on actual fact and data, where trump supporter in the other hands, blame everything to China.
And that, is actually the real "SHIFT THE BLAME"


It's called finding the truth.
You just want to blame China.
Why?


Be sure to blame China next time you got sick.


By the delusional trumpestous rabid rants they appear to be already sick.


Perhaps the natural enemies of coronavirus will be found in the sewers as well.
I am refering to the phages or more specifically the the viro phages.
The Sputnick virophage praying on Mimivirus is one such example.
All they need to do is search thouroghly enough.


I doubt that the virus did not originate in China.
The Chinese are committing genocide in their own country.
I am sure they are gonna lie about the virus as much as possible to shift blame.
The WHO was selling the propaganda as well.
So there is no telling who is not trustworthy when it comes to protecting China's interests.
I can only judge by the spread of cases and the big out break started in china and spread else where.


Facts don’t matter anymore.


I doubt that the virus did not originate from you.


I think you are a racist, and a close minded bigot even when the answer stares you in the eye you are so mentally challenged you rather believe in fairy tales because it suits your character.
Would not be surprised if you are either a killer, a paedophile or a terrorist who spread the virus on purpose.


Why is an ignorant comment like this approved?

It has to be from an American, a Trump tribal type.


Paranoid cold war mentality,do you check under your bed for concealed "reds" after praying to the ghost of MacCarthy????


The virus was found in spain and several other places in march 2019, https://www.reuters.com/art...


Sure, bud, MAGA!


Barcelona in March 2019

A very important discovery.

I've seen it in other international publications.

Earlier, dated x-rays in France showed patients had the coronavirus in November, 2019.

Now it goes much further back in Europe.


No one gets infected between March 2019 and then it suddenly explodes in Italy and Spain in February 2020?


Its similar to the Spanish Flu, the Spanish got the blame because they were one of the first to identify the virus and now China is getting the blame despite China handling the pandemic situation extremely well and orderly while Europe is a shameful reminder why never to trust a government run by Capitalists.


How the virus have been in Spain in March 2019?

So this person who had the virus in Spain in March did not infect any one else for nine months.
No one else got infected.
No other European country found samples in their sewage.
Then after avoiding everyone in Spain managed to infect someone in an obscure wet market in China?


