
Disinfo: COVID-19 is a biological weapon created by Bill Gates, George Soros and the "Deep state"


COVID-19 is, of course, a biological weapon.
It has an artificial origin, like this information wave raised around it.
And the creators are supposedly the former head of Microsoft, one of the richest people on the planet, Bill Gates, and the so-called benefactor George Soros.
In addition, the "Deep state", with its centre in London is closely connected with these two.
The "headquarter" of this game is located in the British Salisbury.

Conspiracy theory, with no evidence provided to support any of the claims.
This is part of a disinformation campaign on coronavirus, well documented by both media and governments.
Elements of this campaign were widely reported by Russian and international publications, and by the European External Action Service.
The EUvsDisinfo database has a long set of Kremlin-linked disinformation cases on this subject, such as claims that Bill Gates and George Soros are sponsoring the coronavirus, that it is a UK, US or NATO creation and Americans have its cure, that it is an artificial disease which specifically targets Chinese DNA, that it is a pretext to gain control of the world’s population, that it was created with economic goals while big pharma companies are spreading panic for their own profits, that it is a biological weapon against Russia and China, that it will wipe out Ukraine’s population in a few days or that it was predicted by Nostradamus and others.
The claim that Gates Foundation has a link with the "creation" of Coronavirus is based on the fact that Bill and Melinda Gates finance some researches projects of Pirbright Institute, a centre of excellence in research and surveillance of virus diseases of farm animals and viruses that spread from animals to humans, based in the UK.
On January 24, 2020, Pirbright institute posted a press release explaining that the organisation have no link with the new COVID-19.
This disinformation message appeared in the same article as the claim that "The most powerful virus has been brought to Italy by Gladio, NATO's secret terrorist network".


