
Does the coronavirus no longer exist clinically as claimed by an Italian doctor?
Belgian experts speak



Marc Van Ranst and Geert Meyfroidt warned the Belgians.


"The virus no longer exists clinically".
This was stated by Dr.
Albert Zangrillo, director of the San Raffaele hospital in Milan, this Monday, June 1.
Comments emphasizing that the strength of the virus would have considerably weakened which were just as quickly reframed by the WHO.
The agency pointed to a misleading statement.
"We must be exceptionally careful not to give the impression that suddenly the virus, by its own free will, has decided to become less pathogenic, responded Michael Ryan, head of the emergency response program at WHO.
It is not the case at all."

"No proof"


While in Belgium the trend is optimistic in view of the fairly low figures from the latest epidemiological reports, the experts also wished to remain cautious regarding the Italian doctor’s claims.
"There is no evidence that the coronavirus has weakened or become less contagious," warned specialists, interviewed by our colleagues from

Het Laatste Nieuws

.
Virologist Marc Van Ranst (KULeuven), for his part, recalled that one could always be as sick in the event of contamination.
"People have the impression that a virus does less damage at the beginning or at the end of the epidemic, because there are fewer people affected, noted the expert member of the GEES.
But whether you are infected at start or end of the pandemic, you will always be sick. "

Same story with Geert Meyfroidt, president of the Belgian Association of Intensive Medicine.
"We will reach the end of the epidemic when no new infection has been registered for at least a month," he said.

Het Laatste Nieuws

.
We are not there yet at all.
There are now no more new patients entering intensive care, but if you look at the percentages there are still as many people who fall seriously ill as those who are less ill. "

Like a pizza


Dr. Zangrillo relied on samples from his hospital to state that the "virus no longer existed clinically".
According to an American researcher, it does not make sense to make certain cases general.
The latter thus gave the example of pizzas.
Just because a restaurant pizza is tasty doesn’t mean it is all.

Related


Does the coronavirus no longer exist?
The controversy between an eminence of Italian medicine and the WHO


