
4 Covid Mask Myths, Debunked (&amp;amp; One That’s More Complicated)


A single scroll through your social media outlet of choice and, chances are, you’ll come across lots of chatter about the coronavirus pandemic.
From aunt Pam’s long-winded "OK, I never post things like this, but" diatribe on aerosols to your high school track friend’s snarky memes about masks, which of—if any—of this endless commentary is true?
Lets’ find out.
Here, four Covid myths that are anything but true, and one that had us scratching our head.

1.
Myth: Wearing masks causes Legionnaires’ disease—

Debunked


According to the CDC, Legionaries’ disease is "a type of severe pneumonia, [caused] by breathing in small droplets of water that contain Legionella."
Hmm.
Lots of buzz words in that description—"pneumonia," "droplets,"—that might have you subconsciously connecting the dots to Covid, but wearing masks to prevent the spread of Covid-19 really has nothing to do with Legionnaire’s disease.
As Factcheck.org writes: "Legionnaires’ disease is caused by bacteria that festers mostly in warm, standing water, not in human saliva."
There are recent and valid concerns of Legionnaires’—unrelated to masks—due to people returning to facilities and buildings that have been left unmaintained.
But masks and Legionnaires’?
Nope.
Not a thing.

2.
Myth: If you’re not sick, you don’t need a mask—

Debunked


Because of early confusion about masks, it’s no wonder so many of us are genuinely confused about when and why to wear them.
So, let’s clear this up.
You can be infected with coronavirus and show no symptoms.
It could very possible that you are a carrier of coronavirus, and would you have no way of knowing it.
Per the CDC: "Masks are recommended as a simple barrier to help prevent respiratory droplets from traveling into the air and onto other people when the person wearing the mask coughs, sneezes, talks, or raises their voice.
This is called source control."
Wearing masks, whether you’re sick or not has been a proven tactic for lowering infection rates.
In the words of Lady Gaga, "I might sound like a broken record, but wear a mask.
It's a sign of respect."


