
"There Are Hiding The Cure, Because There Is A Cure For Coronavirus"- Angry Doctor Laments


A news is as of now slanting and causing a ripple effect on Social Media after a Nigerian-American specialist came out transparently to state there is a solution for Coronavirus.

She additionally said different collegues have been offending her yet she should talk reality.


She talked about schools being on lockdown, how the Government is being diverted by forcing the utilization of veils when they can confront major issues like the creation of more Chloroquine and Zinc.

As indicated by her, she has rewarded patients with diabetes and even asthma.
She said her most established patient is more than 90 years of age and as we as a whole realize it has been accounted for that coronavirus is all the more fatal in the lives of elderly individuals yet none of her patients have kicked the bucket.

She said America needs to quit sitting tight for "counterfeit researchers" to demonstrate that Chloroquine is a solution for COVID19.

As indicated by her, the remedy for Coronavirus is Hydroxychloroquine, Zinc and Zithromax.

She said by her she has rewarded more than 300 patients in their medical clinic and not a solitary patient has kicked the bucket.

As indicated by her hydroxychloroquine is an avoidance and furthermore a fix.

She said it gets her so incensed to perceive how much individuals are in dread when there is really a fix.

As per her, kin will simply continue passing on while we hang tight for a fix and once they are gone we can't rejuvenate them back.

She said they just wear covers and they don't have PPE units yet everything they do is use Chloroquine, she said all different collegues in her clinic additionally utilize Chloroquine.

Dr Stella likewise included that she has gotten such a significant number of dangers.
Some have taken steps to report her to the board.

She said "On the off chance that this is where I get nailed, at that point I am set up for it.
They can execute me however I will say reality, there is a remedy for COVID" She admitted.

She said specialists and think-tanks who are stating there is no fix yet are lying.

She likewise asked research organizations who demonstrated that Chloroquine makes heart complexities demonstrate it to her.

She said no one should be wiped out any longer and we don't have to live in dread any longer in light of the fact that there is a counteraction and solution for Coronavirus.

What's your opinion about this?

Videos for you 👇, anytime you read our articles you also watch videos, so remember to follow us

Watch: What is Deodorant used for?, See funny replies



Watch: Samsung makes fun of apple (You will hate apple after watching this)



Content created and supplied by: EntertainmentHouse (via Opera News )

Opera News is a free to use platform and the views and opinions expressed herein are solely those of the author and do not represent, reflect or express the views of Opera News.
Any/all written content and images displayed are provided by the blogger/author, appear herein as submitted by the blogger/author and are unedited by Opera News.
Opera News does not consent to nor does it condone the posting of any content that violates the rights (including the copyrights) of any third party, nor content that may malign, inter alia, any religion, ethnic group, organization, gender, company, or individual.
Opera News furthermore does not condone the use of our platform for the purposes encouraging/endorsing hate speech, violation of human rights and/or utterances of a defamatory nature.
If the content contained herein violates any of your rights, including those of copyright, and/or violates any the above mentioned factors, you are requested to immediately notify us using via the following email address operanews-external(at)opera.com and/or report the article using the available reporting functionality built into our Platform


