
How effective is convalescent plasma when treating COVID-19?


OKLAHOMA CITY —

Donated convalescent plasma has been touted as a way to help those suffering from COVID-19.

"How it's helping patients is still be evaluated in various clinical trials," Dr. Tuan Le, the chief medical officer for the Oklahoma Blood Institute, said.

Le said though it may not be a cure for COVID-19, research from the Mayo Clinic shows it does help.

"They have shown that if you give convalescent plasma or CCP early within three days of hospital admission that it helps in terms of providing these neutralizing COVID-19 antibodies that might help these patients fight off their infection," Le said.

That's something Lesa Foster knows all too well.
Her husband, Barry, died from COVID-19 last month, but she said the convalescent plasma gave him some time.

"When Barry was in the hospital, he actually received plasma twice and he needed four units of blood, Foster said.

Foster vowed to give blood and plasma in order to pay it forward, and she did so over the weekend.

"We are so thankful for the selfless donors, who gave the plasma, that he received," Foster said.
"It gave him more time, it gave us hope, it gave us hope."

University of Oklahoma’s Chief COVID-19 Officer Dr.
Dale Bratzler explained how it works.

"What you're doing is giving antibodies which are attacking the virus.
Most of the studies show early use of convalescent plasma, particularly those with a lot of anti-bodies in it, is effective at reducing some of the complications of COVID-19.
It appears to be less effective though if it's given late in the course of the illness," Bratzler said.

Those antibodies are at their most ripe just weeks after a patient recovers from the virus.

And the question is, what if you get the vaccine?
At that point, you cannot give plasma.
But the Oklahoma Blood Institute said if someone has received the Pfizer or Moderna vaccine, they can still give regular blood, which also helps COVID-19 patients.

"You don't realize how important it is until you need it and you need it quickly," Foster said.

Coronavirus in Oklahoma: Tracking cases, deaths and latest restrictions


