
Did coronavirus originate in Chinese government laboratory?
Chinese Scientists believe "it did."


(Had to truncate the title because it was too long.)

Chinese scientists believe the deadly coronavirus may have started life in a research facility just 300 yards from the Wuhan fish market.
A new bombshell paper from the Beijing-sponsored South China University of Technology says that the Wuhan Center for Disease Control (WHCDC) could have spawned the contagion in Hubei province.
'The possible origins of 2019-nCoV coronavirus,' penned by scholars Botao Xiao and Lei Xiao claims the WHCDC kept disease-ridden animals in laboratories, including 605 bats.
It also mentions that bats - which are linked to coronavirus - once attacked a researcher and 'blood of bat was on his skin.'
...

Did coronavirus originate in Chinese government laboratory?
Scientists believe killer disease may have begun in research facility 300 yards from Wuhan wet fish market

Despite the lies being told by the Chinese government, which now is trying to blame the U.S. for COVID-19, in fact a "Beijing-sponsored South China University of Technology study" concluded that the COVID-19 virus was in fact caused by an accident, in which bats infected with the virus attacked a researcher and "blood of a bat was on skin of researcher.

According to the study, the accident occurred in a research facility at the "Wuhan Center for Disease Control and prevention" just 300 yards from the Wuhan fish market.

So folks, despite all the lies that even the western left-wing media themselves, and the Chinese government, have been claiming this virus is a Wuhan/Chinese caused virus.

edit on 12-3-2020 by ElectricUniverse because: correct comment and title.


Man, that article is purely hearsy.
The DailyMail and other sites that mention this "bombshell" say the same thing.

Without linking to the paper.
This is fake news till we can get a legitimate source for the paper.

Or the actual paper itself.

Nevermind, found it!
The possible origins of 2019-nCoV coronavirus


a reply to: cenpuppie

I also wonder about the provenance of this paper.
Is clien.net an official forum for distribution of research in China?
(I can't see anything implying that in a brief search.)

Just wondering if this document isn't something fraudulent.
Hard to believe the CCP would be okay with that kind of speculation.

Cheers


Or the Chinese in Wuhan province are dirty hamsters and this is the natural result of poor food preparation and lack of sanitary conditions.


Corona virus was first discovered in the 1960s, fair to say the military in many countries have tried to weaponise it, maybe the Chinese succeeded, maybe the Americans did, one thing is for sure the daily fail and other infotainment agencies don't have the answers.


This strain was planted by you know who


I am no authority on this, but aren't there genetic markers when a virus is engineered?
With this many people looking at it I would think someone would have noticed by now.


a reply to: ElectricUniverse

I can't say I'm surprised.
As I noted in this really excellent thread.

unless our collective Minitruths can compile a story that it wasn't actually the Chinese.....don't rule that one out.

While that may not be an absolutely prefect suggestion, it nevertheless points to some fairly hardcore back peddling as outlined in your OP.


The same month as the out break Wuhan Biosafety Lab was granted level 4 status meaning it had approval for the highest most deadly of virus's including Ebola and bioweapons.
Make of that what you will but to me this was either an accident or perhaps a test.
So far the Chinese have blamed bats, pangolins and dogs and as we all know, the information released from Chinese Government sources are far from reliable.

Let's also not forget that the SARS virus escaped multiple times from Bejing Laboratories so their track record isn't great!


a reply to: ElectricUniverse

QUESTIONABLE SOURCE A questionable source exhibits one or more of the following: extreme bias, consistent promotion of propaganda/conspiracies, poor or no sourcing to credible information, a complete lack of transparency and/or is fake news.
Fake News is the deliberate attempt to publish hoaxes and/or disinformation for the purpose of profit or influence (Learn More).
Sources listed in the Questionable Category may be very untrustworthy and should be fact checked on a per article basis.
Please note sources on this list are not considered fake news unless specifically written in the reasoning section for that source.
See all Questionable sources.
Overall, we rate Daily Mail Questionable due to numerous failed fact checks and poor sourcing of information.
Daily Mail

please, a super market tabloid???

edit on 13-3-2020 by hounddoghowlie because: (no reason given)



originally posted by: PhyllidaDavenport The same month as the out break Wuhan Biosafety Lab was granted level 4 status meaning it had approval for the highest most deadly of virus's including Ebola and bioweapons.
Make of that what you will but to me this was either an accident or perhaps a test.
So far the Chinese have blamed bats, pangolins and dogs and as we all know, the information released from Chinese Government sources are far from reliable.
Let's also not forget that the SARS virus escaped multiple times from Bejing Laboratories so their track record isn't great!

This virus has an almost perfect tool-set in terms of debilitating and eliminating humans who are weak, ill and old.
Not all of which is yet fully understood.
Its almost perfect as a depop BW which smacks of intelligent design rather than natural coincidence!
The question is, was it an accident or deliberate by the Chinese?
do they already have a vaccine?
Or was it done deliberately by another and do they already have a vaccine.

This TOOL of a virus is worse than people think!
Natural - hogwash!




originally posted by: Miccey This strain was planted by you know who

Hilery Clinton !
she just can not stop killing peope.



a reply to: ElectricUniverse

Notice the words "could have" and "possibility" reported in the original article.
Nowhere does it say they "believe it did"

And it is from the "Daily Mail" , which apparently is taking up the "Enquirer" brand of news.

edit on 3/13/20 by Gothmog because: (no reason given)


well i forgot that some people consider super market tabloids hot sheets.


a reply to: ElectricUniverse

Of course it did.
It started near a bioweapon facility and several bioresearch facilities.
Too much a coincidence to dismiss.
Especially since the virus is truly beneficial to Chinese society as a whole.

China is a communist country, individuals mean nothing.
Everything is done for the good of the whole, society as a whole.

They have a enormous problem with too many elderly.
This is due their one child policy.
Right now on average a couple is supporting themselves, their child/ren, and FOUR other adults, this is their culture- no to few facilities for the elderly.

This virus is specifically designed to kill the elderly and not harm young people.
An excellent way to genocide the elderly without looking like they did.

There are always outliers who die from any virus, like health workers forced by the government to work 24/7 without rest or minimal rest for weeks on end.

In a socialist/communist country the resource drain from the elderly is reaching crises levels.
Aside from China, China may see itself as doing good for the entire world.
There are an excess of elderly in every developed country in the world.

To deny or dismiss it being a designer virus to kill the excess elderly population is like sticking your head in the sand.

I have seen several people doing that and wonder if they are Chinese paid operatives who are doing their best to make this highly logical conclusion sound like a weird conspiracy theory.

Someone with 2 masters degrees, and a very steady person asked me the other day if I thought the Chinese designed this and it got loose from their facility.
I said a cautious yes, and the person said, I do too.
This shows that even people who aren't into "the new" the way ATS people are have seen the obvious truth.

edit on 3/13/20 by The2Billies because: format


"What Are The Odds?"
- A Timeline Of Facts Linking Covid-19, HIV, Wuhan's Secret Bio-Lab www.zerohedge.com...

So there’s original SARS, which is a type of coronavirus.
SARS infects cells through the ACE2 receptor in hosts.
The S spike protein plays a key role in how the virus infects cells.
Each of the little spikes that surround the coronavirus is a spike protein (or S protein).
That’s what gives the coronavirus it’s name - it’s "crown" of these spikes.

After the first SARS outbreak, there was a "land rush" to find other coronaviruses.
A collection of SARS-*like* coronaviruses was isolated in several horseshoe bat species over 10 years ago, called SARS-like CoVs, or SL-CoVs.
Not SARS exactly, but coronaviruses similar to SARS.
In 2007, a team of researchers based in Wuhan, in conjunction with an Australian laboratory, conducted a study with SARS, a SARS-like coronavirus, and HIV-1.

They also predicted based on the S-ACE2 binding structure, that SARS-like CoVs were not able to use this same attack method (ACE2 mediation).
They decided to create a pseudovirus where they essentially put a SARS-like CoV in a HIV envelope.
It worked.
Using an HIV envelope, they replaced the RBD (receptor binding domain) of SL-CoV with that of SARS-CoV, and used it to successfully infect bats through ACE2 mediation.

The Indian scientific paper that Chinese got angry about.

Uncanny similarity of unique inserts in the 2019-nCoV spike protein to HIV-1 gp120 and Gag

And then we have the articles on people working at the lab selling animals at food market instead of cremating them.
www.breitbart.com...



originally posted by: hounddoghowlie please, a super market tabloid???

To me it seems ironic how certain people seem to espouse the CCP propaganda about this story not being real when the article mentions the names of the Chinese scientists whom wrote this report, and a story the CCP tried to bury.

But anyways, here is an excerpt and link to the paper, which took me a while to find and wasn't possible for me to post last night for personal reasons.

The article even states that the CCP buried this story when it came out, but thankfully we have archives that shine the truth about stories, and the attempts of dictatorships like China, in doing everything they can to stop the truth from ever coming out.

The possible origins of 2019-nCoV coronavirus Preprint (PDF Available) · February 2020 with 547 Reads DOI: 10.13140/RG.2.2.21799.29601 Cite this publication The 2019-nCoV has caused an epidemic of 28,060 laboratory-confirmed infections in human including 564 deaths in China by February 6, 2020.
Two descriptions of the virus published on Nature this week indicated that the genome sequences from patients were almost identical to the Bat CoV ZC45 coronavirus.
It was critical to study where the pathogen came from and how it passed onto human.
An article published on The Lancet reported that 27 of 41 infected patients were found to have contact with the Huanan Seafood Market in Wuhan.
We noted two laboratories conducting research on bat coronavirus in Wuhan, one of which was only 280 meters from the seafood market.
We briefly examined the histories of the laboratories and proposed that the coronavirus probably originated from a laboratory.
Our proposal provided an alternative origin of the coronavirus in addition to natural recombination and intermediate host.

web.archive.org...://www.researchgate.net/publication/339070128_The_possible_origins_of_2019-nCoV_coronavirus

(For some reason i can't fix the link.
To find the link, which has another link to the entire paper, just copy the url and paste it in a new window.)

BTW, the Chinese government attempted to claim that the "U.S. military released this virus in Wuhan," which of course it's BS.

edit on 13-3-2020 by ElectricUniverse because: correct comment and attempt to correct link.



a reply to: ElectricUniverse

This virus has been sequenced and deconstructed in multiple state and private labs all over the world.
Including many in the US.

So far, nobody has found any trace that might indicate that it was genetically engineered, or even hybridised.

The technology for gene editing is well known, and it leaves marks on the subject that would stand out to any expert where parts were added or removed.

If this virus is man made the it's been made using a technology that is completely unknown to science, and which leaves no recognizable trace.
So, I'm going to go for it being a natural organizm and not a bio-weapon.



originally posted by: The2Billies a reply to: ElectricUniverse Of course it did.
It started near a bioweapon facility and several bioresearch facilities.
Too much a coincidence to dismiss.
Especially since the virus is truly beneficial to Chinese society as a whole.
China is a communist country, individuals mean nothing.
Everything is done for the good of the whole, society as a whole.
They have a enormous problem with too many elderly.
This is due their one child policy.
Right now on average a couple is supporting themselves, their child/ren, and FOUR other adults, this is their culture- no to few facilities for the elderly.
This virus is specifically designed to kill the elderly and not harm young people.
An excellent way to genocide the elderly without looking like they did.
There are always outliers who die from any virus, like health workers forced by the government to work 24/7 without rest or minimal rest for weeks on end.
In a socialist/communist country the resource drain from the elderly is reaching crises levels.
Aside from China, China may see itself as doing good for the entire world.
There are an excess of elderly in every developed country in the world.
To deny or dismiss it being a designer virus to kill the excess elderly population is like sticking your head in the sand.
I have seen several people doing that and wonder if they are Chinese paid operatives who are doing their best to make this highly logical conclusion sound like a weird conspiracy theory.
Someone with 2 masters degrees, and a very steady person asked me the other day if I thought the Chinese designed this and it got loose from their facility.
I said a cautious yes, and the person said, I do too.
This shows that even people who aren't into "the new" the way ATS people are have seen the obvious truth.

You're argument has one flaw.

The elderly in China are one of the primary sources of child care.
Particularly with internal migrants (Mostly people who were born in rural areas and moved to urban areas, leaving their children behind as the Chinese system makes it difficult for them to go to school outside of their home area).

Kill the elderly, cause a child care crisis.

This virus hits the lungs, and China has a huge amount of middle aged male smokers (And Chinese cigarettes can be NASTY in the extreme).
These people are some of the most economically productive in the country.
Creating a virus like this is going to hit a productive sector of the population as well as the elderly.



a reply to: ElectricUniverse

to me it's laughable how certain people always reach for a far fetched reason to find a conspiracy or cover up.

you do know what preprint means on a paper don't you?
it means that it has not been peer reviewed or published in a scientific journal.

here i found this while trying to find a good link for your broken one.

While the two authors do not provide any evidence that the novel coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) was created in the lab, they build their case based on assumptions.
They begin by saying that bats carrying the novel coronavirus are originally found in Yunnan or Zhejiang province, which is more than 900 km from the seafood market at the centre of the investigation on the source.
Hence, the chances of bats "flying to the market" are slim.
Opinion | A preprint provides ammunition to conspiracy theories about SARS-CoV-2 origin

now granted this is a Opinion piece.
but The Hindu is rated high for factual reporting and their sources.

These media sources have a slight to moderate liberal bias.
They often publish factual information that utilizes loaded words (wording that attempts to influence an audience by using appeal to emotion or stereotypes) to favor liberal causes.
These sources are generally trustworthy for information, but may require further investigation.
See all Left-Center sources.
Factual Reporting: HIGH Notes: The Hindu is an English-language Indian daily newspaper.
The Hindu has been accused of left-wing bias with its articles and editorials, but covers the USA with a more centrist approach.
(D.
Van Zandt 10/27/2016) The Hindu

so i guess i'm one of those certain people that would take the word of a left leaning, opinion piece over a super market tabloid any day.
plus, did you notice that your external source has the word preprint at the top.

also do you really believe that the WHO would back China in this so called BIO weapon escape/ or accident.
to do that and if any evidence came out that it did cover it up their credibility would be shot completely.
they don't have a high degree of that now.

edit on 14-3-2020 by hounddoghowlie because: (no reason given)

oh and i forgot to mention that there is a link to your so called research paper in The Hindu piece.
it's only one page.
what kind of self respecting researcher is going to write a paper that is only one page long.
plus he also says possible not that it is.
it's possible that if a grass hopper could fire a .45 the birds wouldn't blank with him, or if a frog had wings he wouldn't bump his azz when he hopped.

here the paper, The possible origins of 2019-nCoV coronavirus

edit on 14-3-2020 by hounddoghowlie because: (no reason given)


