
Are Masks Necessary?
Well here’s what we think…


Some of us think masks are necessary and some of us don’t, who do you agree with?

Cacie Cortes

: I think that masks are not very effective or necessary, but to an extent, I think they come in handy.
I t


hink everybody shouldn’t have to wear a mask if they don’t want to.
People who want to should wear a mask and people who don’t shouldn’t have to wear a mask.
I believe this because wearing a mask can create other problems such as respiratory infections and hypoxia which is depriving your body tissue of oxygen.
Masks can also cause acne because of the moisture that is created while wearing a mask.
When people stop wearing masks and have worn them for a long time their immune system will be weak when exposed to germs all at once.

Jayda Pineda

: I believe that masks are necessary and people should use them when out in public.
Even though some people may not agree with my opinion I still think they should at least wear masks for the people around them who may have a weak immune system to begin with.
According to AARP, "The primary way coronavirus spreads is from person to person by respiratory droplets produced


when an infected person coughs, sneezes or talks.
Face masks, however, can block these droplets.
They act as a barrier to keep virus-containing particles from escaping an infected individual and landing on another person… ".
With that being said I also agree some masks may be uncomfortable, but others may not.
But I do understand the reason we need to wear them.

In conclusion, we both have different opinions, but the diversity in our article will give both of our opinions a voice.
Even though I think that masks aren’t very effective, I think some people should still wear them, but they may cause other problems such as respiratory infections.
I do not agree that they may cause other health problems because their purpose is to protect people from diseases and infections and not to harm them.
Even though we do not have the same opinion we can still get along, but healthy arguments will always occur in an opinionated piece.

If you want a picture to show with your comment, go get a gravatar.

Email Address (required)

Speak your mind


