
Coronavirus Successfully Treated by Vitamin C


Surprise surprise, Vitamin C is found to successfully treat the Coronavirus.

https://www.europereloaded.com/news-media-attacks-vitamin-c-treatment-of-covid-19-coronavirus-video/

Here is a verified official statement from China’s Xi’an Jiaotong University Second Hospital:"On the afternoon of February 20, 2020, another 4 patients with severe coronavirus pneumonia recovered from the C10 West Ward of Tongji Hospital.
In the past 8 patients have been discharged from hospital. .
.
High-dose vitamin C achieved good results in clinical applications.
We believe that for patients with severe neonatal pneumonia, and for critically ill patients, vitamin C treatment should be initiated as soon as possible after admission.
Numerous studies have shown that the dose of vitamin C has a lot to do with the effect of treatment.
High-dose vitamin C can not only improve antiviral levels, but more importantly, can prevent and treat acute lung injury (ALI) and acute respiratory distress (ARDS).
"Here is a report from Korea:"At my hospital in Daegu, South Korea, all inpatients and all staff members have been using vitamin C orally since last week.
Some people this week had a mild fever, headaches and coughs, and those who had symptoms got 30,000 mg intravenous vitamin C.
Some people got better after about two days, and most had symptoms go away after one injection."
(Hyoungjoo Shin, M.D.)There are at least three high-dose intravenous vitamin C studies underway in China.
Literally by the truckload, tons of vitamin C has been sent into Wuhan.Here is a report from a physician in China:"We need to broadcast a message worldwide very quickly: Vitamin C (small or large dose) does no harm to people and is the one of the few, if not the only, agent that has a chance to prevent us from getting, and can treat, COVID-19 infection.
When can we, medical doctors and scientists, put patients’ lives first?"
(Richard Z. Cheng, MD, PhD, International Vitamin C China Epidemic Medical Support Team Leader)

Indeed, China is now officially recommending Vitamin C as treatment:

https://worldhealth.net/news/official-statement-china-recommended-treatment-covid-19/

"Confirming the reports from small independent studies and 3 clinical trials, the Shanghai government has announced a recommendation to use high dose intravenous treatment of vitamin C to treat COVID-19, according to the Orthomolecular Medicine News Service.The announced official recommendation that COVID-19 should be treated with high doses of intravenous vitamin C come as welcomed news as the virus continues to spread.
The dosage recommendation will vary with the severity of illness ranging from 50-200 milligrams per kilogram body weight per day to as much as 16,000 mg/kg/day."

Also announced here: http://orthomolecular.org/resources/omns/v16n16.shtml


Still waiting on a scientific paper on this.

Also, how can a vitamin cure a viral infection?
Best it does is keep the immune system functional.
So I guess if you're deficient, you'll see a boost.

But please, tell me what process causes the virus to die from contact with a mineral?


Dangerous misinformation from Tom as usual

https://www.snopes.com/news/2020/03/09/coronavirus-its-time-to-debunk-claims-that-vitamin-c-could-cure-it/

If you have symptoms, go see a doctor and get a test.
Talk to medical professionals, don't try and self-medicate based on things you see online

Mods, should Tom be allowed to post this sort of thing?
It can be dangerous if people see this sort of thing and follow bad advise rather than seeking help from the relevant professionals.


Quote from: Lord Dave on March 10, 2020, 08:13:35 AM

Still waiting on a scientific paper on this.Also, how can a vitamin cure a viral infection?
Best it does is keep the immune system functional.
So I guess if you're deficient, you'll see a boost.But please, tell me what process causes the virus to die from contact with a mineral?

See the 7 minute mark of the following video.
Dr.
Cheng explains that the body turns Vitamin C into Hydrogen Peroxide in the body to combat the disease, much like Hydrogen Peroxide can combat infections externally.
Earlier in the video, over the first seven minutes, Dr.
Cheng also relates another case of Vitamin C successfully treating the Coronavirus.


Watch on

Quote from: AllAroundTheWorld on March 10, 2020, 08:59:06 AM

Dangerous misinformation from Tom as usualhttps://www.snopes.com/news/2020/03/09/coronavirus-its-time-to-debunk-claims-that-vitamin-c-could-cure-it/If you have symptoms, go see a doctor and get a test.Talk to medical professionals, don't try and self-medicate based on things you see onlineMods, should Tom be allowed to post this sort of thing?
It can be dangerous if people see this sort of thing and follow bad advise rather than seeking help from the relevant professionals.

Did they test Vitamin C against people with the Coronavirus in that link?

Yes or No?

No, they did not.
That's all we need to know.
It's literally just an opinion saying that it's "unlikely".

It is you who needs to be censored, based on your negligance of providing evidence based medicine or case studies showing that Vitamin C IVs have no effect against disease.
Where is the evidence?
That is what is needed to counter these Vitamin C claims; evidence, not an opinion.

Doctors are recommending Vitamin C IVs for this, as well as the government of China.
I don't see you providing any physical evidence against that.


Quote from: Tom Bishop on March 10, 2020, 09:26:21 AM

It is you who needs to be censored


Really?

I have suggested that people with symptoms should consult a medical professional rather than self-medicate with remedies they have seen someone promote online.

Do you think that is bad advice?


Quote from: AllAroundTheWorld on March 10, 2020, 09:46:20 AM

Quote from: Tom Bishop on March 10, 2020, 09:26:21 AM

It is you who needs to be censored

Really?I have suggested that people with symptoms should consult a medical professional rather than self-medicate with remedies they have seen someone promote online.Do you think that is bad advice?

I did reference medical professionals.
Doctors at university clinical trials and physcians, as referenced above, and Dr.
Cheng.

http://www.drwlc.com/dr-richard-cheng.shtml

Dr.
Richard Cheng, from the video.
Yep, he's a licensed US medical doctor who is recommending Vitamin C.

Why shouldn't we give attention to these doctors who are recommending Vitamin C IVs, and who are telling us that it can treat this condition?
This isn't from some random source.
He's a doctor.


Clinical trials are ongoing, a thread titled "Coronavirus Successfully Treated by Vitamin C" is irresponsible.
If you have symptoms, go and see medical professionals - don't Google it and follow random advice you see from someone online, even if the person online does claim to be a doctor.


Quote from: AllAroundTheWorld on March 10, 2020, 09:57:01 AM

Clinical trials are ongoing, a thread titled "Coronavirus Successfully Treated by Vitamin C" is irresponsible.If you have symptoms, go and see medical professionals - don't Google it and follow random advice you see from someone online, even if the person online does claim to be a doctor.

Clinical trials are showing that Vitamin C is effective for this, like it has shown that it is effective for other viruses, as stated by Dr.
Cheng.
Dr.
Cheng is a medical doctor and you are not, and nor is your source.
The person in your Snopes source isn't even claiming to hold an MD.
He's a professor of biochemistry, not a doctor.
The only actual MDs in this thread are supporting Vitamin C.

Like you said, we shouldn't follow random advice we see online, and so that means we should discard whatever it is you have to say.
You are the random source here.
You have not provided any evidence that Dr.
Cheng is a liar, or have given us any reason for why we should listen to you that these claims and doctors are frauds.


Quote from: Tom Bishop on March 10, 2020, 10:01:52 AM

Like you said, we shouldn't follow random advice we see online

Correct.

If you have symptoms, go see a doctor or other medical professional and get professional advice.


Quote from: AllAroundTheWorld on March 10, 2020, 10:08:57 AM

Quote from: Tom Bishop on March 10, 2020, 10:01:52 AM

Like you said, we shouldn't follow random advice we see onlineCorrect.If you have symptoms, go see a doctor or other medical professional and get professional advice.

No one has told anyone anything about not going to a doctor for symptoms.
You have entirely invented an argument which was not made.

This thread is about clinical trials which have shown successful treatment of Coronavirus with Vitamin C IVs, and the announcement from the Chinese government that they are supporting this treatment.
It's called world news, alternative science, and an appropriate subject for this board.
If you have anything to contribute to that subject, it is welcomed.
If you want to continue to call them liars and frauds, that's fine, but I would then ask for evidence of this.
Otherwise please stop giving medical advice in my thread.
This thread is for discussion of the topic.
This thread isn't telling anyone to do anything, except for the referenced doctors and entities, who are recommending this IV treatment to be conducted by doctors with their patients.


Interesting dashboard here if you want to track our impending doom in real time

https://www.arcgis.com/apps/opsdashboard/index.html#/bda7594740fd40299423467b48e9ecf6


A cording to wiki, Hydrogen peroxide is very quickly used up in the body to avoid it from killing cells off.
If vitamin C really does cause a large production of Hydrogen Peroxide, it would be quite fatal.
It kills cells, after all, if not used quickly.


Quote from: Lord Dave on March 10, 2020, 08:13:35 AM

Still waiting on a scientific paper on this.Also, how can a vitamin cure a viral infection?
Best it does is keep the immune system functional.
So I guess if you're deficient, you'll see a boost.But please, tell me what process causes the virus to die from contact with a mineral?

Dave, where did you read the word, "CURE?"

Quote from: AllAroundTheWorld on March 10, 2020, 08:59:06 AM

Dangerous misinformation from Tom as usualhttps://www.snopes.com/news/2020/03/09/coronavirus-its-time-to-debunk-claims-that-vitamin-c-could-cure-it/If you have symptoms, go see a doctor and get a test.Talk to medical professionals, don't try and self-medicate based on things you see onlineMods, should Tom be allowed to post this sort of thing?
It can be dangerous if people see this sort of thing and follow bad advise rather than seeking help from the relevant professionals.

AATW, where did you read the word, "CURE?"

You post a link from snopes that includes the word CURE?

And what Tom posted does not contain the word CURE!

It contains the word, "treat."

Come on dudes...


Quote from: Lord Dave on March 10, 2020, 11:32:31 AM

A cording to wiki, Hydrogen peroxide is very quickly used up in the body to avoid it from killing cells off.
If vitamin C really does cause a large production of Hydrogen Peroxide, it would be quite fatal.
It kills cells, after all, if not used quickly.

From what I've read, the body makes the hydrogen peroxide at the main site of the illness.

https://knowledgeofhealth.com/reassessment-of-vitamin-c-therapy-and-cancer/

Quote

As explained by Hickey and colleagues, in states of illness, such as cancer, the demand for electrons rises exponentially and up to 200 grams (200,000 mgs) might be needed.
Cancer cells have a voracious appetite for vitamin C.
A therapeutic vitamin C regimen attempts to turn vitamin C from a protective antioxidant to a pro-oxidant state to transiently generate hydrogen peroxide at the site of tumors and selectively kill off cancer cells without damaging healthy cells.
[Journal Orthomolecular Medicine 2005]


Quote from: totallackey on March 10, 2020, 11:58:59 AM

AATW, where did you read the word, "CURE?
"You post a link from snopes that includes the word CURE?And what Tom posted does not contain the word CURE!It contains the word, "treat.
"Come on dudes...

Tom has edited his post, I'm fairly sure he did use that word initially.


breaking news: the #1 global exporter of vitamin C says that vitamin C cures diseases!
color me shocked.
i certainly can't think of a single conceivable reason to be skeptical of these claims.


Turns out that reducing inflammation is still beneficial.
What a world.

Quote from: garygreen on March 10, 2020, 01:27:23 PM

breaking news: the #1 global exporter of vitamin C says that vitamin C cures diseases!
color me shocked.
i certainly can't think of a single conceivable reason to be skeptical of these claims.

Tom only cares for conflicts of interest when it runs counter to his world view.


Quote from: AllAroundTheWorld on March 10, 2020, 12:49:39 PM

Quote from: totallackey on March 10, 2020, 11:58:59 AM

AATW, where did you read the word, "CURE?
"You post a link from snopes that includes the word CURE?And what Tom posted does not contain the word CURE!It contains the word, "treat.
"Come on dudes...Tom has edited his post, I'm fairly sure he did use that word initially.

I am fairly sure that you would have quoted that directly.


Quote from: totallackey on March 10, 2020, 03:09:24 PM

I am fairly sure that you would have quoted that directly.

You can see above I did not quote him.
You can also see that he has edited his post.


Quote from: Tom Bishop on March 10, 2020, 12:05:32 PM

Quote from: Lord Dave on March 10, 2020, 11:32:31 AM

A cording to wiki, Hydrogen peroxide is very quickly used up in the body to avoid it from killing cells off.
If vitamin C really does cause a large production of Hydrogen Peroxide, it would be quite fatal.
It kills cells, after all, if not used quickly.
From what I've read, the body makes the hydrogen peroxide at the main site of the illness.https://knowledgeofhealth.com/reassessment-of-vitamin-c-therapy-and-cancer/Quote

As explained by Hickey and colleagues, in states of illness, such as cancer, the demand for electrons rises exponentially and up to 200 grams (200,000 mgs) might be needed.
Cancer cells have a voracious appetite for vitamin C.
A therapeutic vitamin C regimen attempts to turn vitamin C from a protective antioxidant to a pro-oxidant state to transiently generate hydrogen peroxide at the site of tumors and selectively kill off cancer cells without damaging healthy cells.
[Journal Orthomolecular Medicine 2005]


Ok, assuming thats accurate...

1.
The quoted text states they are trying to induce the reaction in cancer cells, so it doesn't seem to happen naturally.
2.
Viruses can't be stopped once inside a cell.
Not by the host anyway.
Thats why they are effective.
Once the cell explodes, then the immune system attacks it.


