
Coronavirus COVID-19: “Made in China” or “Made in America”?


Trump contends that the coronavirus was "Made in China".
And that China threatens America.

The president of the US wants Americans to believe that the coronavirus pandemic carries the "Made in China" label.

Secretary of State Mike Pompeo refers to it as the "Wuhan coronavirus."

"The Big Lie" started on January 30th when the WHO Director General pressured by powerful US economic interests declared a global public health emergency with only 150 "confirmed cases" (by the WHO) outside China with only six cases in the USA.
And it was called a pandemic.


"Fake media" immediately went into high gear.
China was held responsible for "spreading infection" Worldwide.

On the following day (January 31, 2020), Trump announced that he would deny entry to the US of both Chinese and foreign nationals "who have traveled in China in the last 14 days".
This immediately triggered a crisis in air travel, transportation, US-China business relations as well as freight and shipping transactions.

While the "Made in China" coronavirus label served as a pretext, the unspoken objective was to bring the Chinese economy to its knees.

It was an act of "economic warfare", which has contributed to undermining both China’s economy as well as that of most Western countries (allies of the US), leading to a wave of bankruptcies, not to mention unemployment, collapse of the tourist industry, etc.

Moreover, Trump’s "Made in China" coronavirus label almost immediately as of early February triggered a campaign against ethnic Chinese throughout the Western World.

Stage 2.0: "Infections Transmitted by Europeans"?

On March 11, a new phase was launched.
The Trump administration imposed a 30-day ban on Europeans entering the United States through the suspension of air-travel with the EU (with the exception of Britain).

America is now waging its "economic war" against Western Europe, while using COVID-19 as a justification.

European governments have been co-opted.
In Italy a lockdown prevails, ordered by the Prime Minister, large cities in Northern Italy including Milano and Torino have literally closed down.

Confusion, Fear and intimidation prevail.

It’s "Damage Made in America".

Late February: Financial manipulation characterizes stock market transactions Worldwide.

The stock value of airlines companies collapses overnight.
Those who had "foreknowledge" of Trump’s March 11 decision to ban transatlantic flights from EU countries made a bundle of money.
It’s called "short-selling" in the derivative market among other speculative ops.
Institutional speculators including hedge funds with "inside info" had already placed their bets.

More generally, a massive transfer of money wealth has occurred, among the largest in World history, leading to countless bankruptcies, not to mention the loss of lifelong savings engineered through the collapse of financial markets.

This process is ongoing.
It would be naive to believe that these occurrences are spontaneous, based on market forces.
They are deliberate.
They are part of a carefully designed plan involving powerful financial interests.

COVID-19: "Made in China" or "Made in America"?

And now a new bombshell has emerged: The White House rhetoric of accusing China of spreading the "Wuhan virus" Worldwide has been questioned by both Japanese and Chinese reports:

A report from a Japanese TV station that suspected some of the 14,000 Americans died of influenza may have unknowningly contracted the coronavirus has gone viral on Chinese social media, stoking fears and speculations in China that the novel coronavirus may have originated in the US.
The report, by TV Asahi Corporation of Japan, suggested that the US government may have failed to grasp how rampant the virus have gone on the US soil.
(People’s Daily, February 23, 2020)



And on March 12, in a statement to the US Congress (House Oversight Committee), CDC Director Robert Redfield candidly admitted, yes, some cases diagnosed as seasonal flu could have been coronavirus.

When did this occur?
In October, November?
He did not mention the dates.


CDC director Robert Redfield admitted some Americans who seemingly died from influenza were tested positive for novel #coronavirus in the posthumous diagnosis, during the House Oversight Committee Wednesday.
#COVID19 pic.twitter.com/kk7q0bKE6p — Global Times (@globaltimesnews) March 12, 2020


China’s Foreign Ministry reacted to CDC Robert Redfield’s statements intimating that the virus could have originated in the US.

"When Did "Patient Zero" Begin in the US?"
said China’s Foreign Ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian.

Of course "WHEN" is the fundamental question.

"How many people are infected, what are the names of the hospitals, It might be US Army that brought epidemic to Wuhan.
Be transparent, US owe us an explanation"


See below


@CDCDirector Dr.
Robert Redfield: Some cases that were previously diagnosed as Flu in the US were actually #COVID19.
It is absolutely WRONG and INAPPROPRIATE to call this the Chinese coronavirus.
https://t.co/Mk4RB7XYq0 — Hua Chunying 华春莹 (@SpokespersonCHN) March 12, 2020



The World is at the Crossroads of the Most Serious Social and Economic Crisis in Modern History

People Worldwide are being misled.
They are told: "It’s going to get worse".
Angela Merkel has stated without a shred of evidence that "70% of the German population could contract coronavirus if more isn’t done to stop its spread."

In several countries, the economy has closed down.
Supermarkets, shopping malls, offices, factories, schools, universities are at a standstill.
People are confined to their homes.
Fear and intimidation prevail.

In the meantime, coinciding with the coronavirus lockdown in Italy, 30,000 US troops have been dispatched to the EU, under US-NATO’s "Defend Europe 2020" war games against Russia, in the largest military deployment since World War II.
"Could the Defender become the Invader…?"

Let’s be clear: The coronavirus pandemic is not the "cause" of this unfolding economic and social crisis.
It is the "pretext" for the implementation of a carefully designed "operation" (supported by media disinformation) which destabilizes national economies, impoverishes large sectors of the World population and literally undermines the lives of millions of people.
What we are dealing with is "An Act of War".

While COVID-19 is an important Public Health concern, the freeze of economic activity coupled with the lockdown and an ongoing fear campaign does not constitute an effective means to combating the virus.
What is required is a carefully designed and coordinated preventative and curative public health program.

For further details see:

What Happens Next: The Potential Impacts of a Continued Freeze of US Trade with China

The geopolitics are complex.
How will economic events unfold?
We will essentially focus briefly on US-China relations.

Those who formulated America’s "undeclared economic war" against China, failed to envisage the potential backlash on the US economy.

It’s an "Economic Harakiri" i.e. "Suicide American Style"

In a matter of months, if normal US-China trade relations and transportation are not resumed, the impacts on the national economies of Western countries could be devastating.

A large share of goods displayed in America’s shopping malls, including major brands are "Made in China".

"Made in China" is the backbone of retail trade in the USA which indelibly sustains household consumption in virtually all major commodity categories from clothing, footwear, hardware, electronics, toys, jewellery, household fixtures, medical supplies, medicine and prescription drugs,, TV sets, cell phones, etc.

"Made in China" also dominates the production of a wide range of industrial inputs, advanced technology, machinery, building materials, automotive, parts and accessories, etc.
not to mention the extensive sub-contracting of Chinese companies on behalf of US conglomerates.

While the US has a powerful and sophisticated financial apparatus (which has the ability to manipulate trade and stock markets Worldwide), America’s Real Economy is in a shambles.

Production does not take place in the USA.
The producers have given up production.

The US trade deficit with China is instrumental in fuelling the profit driven consumer economy which relies on "Made in China" consumer goods.
Meanwhile China holds a large part of the US public debt which they can readily convert into real assets overnight.


www.Made-In-China.com

At this juncture of the coronavirus crisis, Beijing policy makers are fully aware that the US economy is fragile and heavily dependent on "Made in China".
Moreover, China has overtaken the US in several high tech areas including 5G.

And with an internal market of 1.4 billion people, coupled with a global export market under the "Belt and Road" initiative, the Chinese economy will have the upper hand.

Related Articles


