
The United States is bursting!
It is not Fort Detrick that makes the new crown virus, but the P3 laboratory in North Carolina


If Trump was positive about China’s production of the virus, then we might as well use his words to further analyze whether the virus originated from the American laboratory

If Trump was positive about China’s production of the virus, then we might as well use his words to further analyze whether the virus originated from the American laboratory.
Trump once said when criticizing China that even the best virus experts believed that this was not a product of nature, but came from a laboratory, so now the American laboratory also conforms to this principle.
Trump once said that no one knows the virus better than me.
Now, if the virus really originated in an American laboratory, then Trump really did not lie.
Trump also said that everything about this virus is in his grasp, so according to the common sense that the laboratory that made the virus must have an antidote, Trump should indeed be confident.


However, there is a philosopher who once said that the world’s best liar can deceive everyone at certain times and certain people at all times.
However, it is impossible for him to fool everyone at all times.
As the truth approaches step by step, the secrets of American biological laboratories are gradually revealed.
It is worth mentioning that this time it was the Americans who exposed it!
A few days ago, American intelligence expert Greg Roubini said in the media that the virus came from the Span1span University of North Carolina P3 Virus Laboratory.
His insight was also affirmed by Professor Francis Boyle of Indiana University.
Frankly, Ralph Barrick, as the main researcher at the P3 Laboratory in North Carolina, can indeed synthesize this virus.

According to foreign media reports, Greg Rubini has a lot of internal information about the US government and military, and he also said in the media that the virus is actually Fort Detrick The base "borrowed" from the P3 virus laboratory.
If we contact Hill’s revelation, an Indian-American, we can connect these facts together.
At first, Professor Baric obtained the source strain of the new crown in the P3 laboratory and further experiments.Finally, an antidote to this virus was developed, but in May, the virus accidentally leaked, and it was too late for the United States to close the laboratory in July.
However, because there is an antidote, Trump is not worried.
In Hill’s words, Professor Barrick also told the government that there is no need to worry about this virus, so Trump is unscrupulous.

During the Trump administration, he accused China more than once, saying that the new crown virus was produced in the Chinese laboratory.
But he did not expect that his words would now become the most effective evidence that the world doubts American laboratories.
Since the epidemic spread from China to the United States in March 2020, the Detrick base has been activated again.
Trump did not expect that the virus will mutate.
Now, the United States has become the most infected country in the world, and it has also become the most suspicious object in the world.
Trump wanted to dump China, but he "lifted a rock and shot himself in the foot."
Just like Pompeo , the former director of the CIA in the United States, said: "We lie, we deceive...this is the pride of America's continuous progress!"

.


