
Fact Check: Mixing lemon and baking soda in tea won't kill coronavirus


There is no scientific evidence to prove that a mix of lemon and baking powder in tea can kill the virus.
(Representative image: Reuters)


With a vaccine against Covid-19 still elusive, social media is coming out with newer home remedies every now and then.
More recently, a message going viral on Facebook and WhatsApp claims that there has not been a single death in Israel due to coronavirus as they mix lemon and baking soda in their tea.
The claim goes on to say that this combination kills the virus.


India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found the claim to be untrue.
As of June 9, there have been 298 deaths in Israel due to coronavirus.
Also, there is no scientific evidence to prove that a mix of lemon and baking powder in tea can kill the virus.

Several Facebook users have shared similar content.

AFWA busts each of the claims made in the viral post.


Coronavirus in Israel

The viral claim says, "In Israel no death from COVID-19.
There is now information from Israel where this virus did not cause any deaths."

This is not true.
According to data provided by Johns Hopkins University, Israel reported 298 deaths due to Covid-19 as of June 9, and a total of 18,089 cases.
Lemon and baking soda therapy

The claim says, "Drink a mixture of lemon and bicarbonate as hot tea which kills the virus and alkalize the immune system as at night the body becomes acidic."

But there is no scientific evidence that a mix of lemon and baking powder with tea can kill coronavirus.
Lemon is a rich source of Vitamin C, and many believe it is effective against common cold.
But whether it is really effective against respiratory tract viruses is still debatable.

A single lemon contains 30 milligrams of Vitamin C. according to the National Institutes of Health in the United States, even a dose of 200 milligrams of Vitamin C per day do not reduce the incidence of common cold in the general population.
According to this study, Vitamin C supplements can shorten the duration of common cold and lessen its severity, but it is still unsupported scientifically if lemon juice can kill the virus in the respiratory tract.

"Can the combination of lemon and sodium bicarbonate alkalise the immune system?"

The acidity of human blood is measured by determining its pH.
A lower pH means the blood is more acidic, while a higher pH means the blood is more basic or alkaline.
The pH of blood should be around 7.4, so human body is slightly alkaline.

As per studies, pH of the human body is effectively impossible to be altered through diet unless one suffers from certain medical conditions such as acidosis, where the pH level drops.

"So the viral claim that the combination of lemon and Sodium bicarbonate can alkalise the immune system is wrong."

Conclusion

Hence, all the three claims made in the viral post are untrue.
Deaths due to coronavirus have occurred in Israel, and lemon juice with hot water or tea as Vitamin C supplement cannot kill or slow the spread of coronavirus.

Also, the mix of lemon and sodium bicarbonate or baking soda will not change the pH level of the immune system.
Therefore, the lemon therapy to kill coronavirus is scientifically not true.


There has been no death due to Covid-19 in Israel as they mix lemon and baking soda in their tea.
This combination kills coronavirus.As of June 9, Israel reported 298 deaths due to Covid-19, and a total of 18,089 cases.
There is no scientific evidence that a mix of lemon and baking powder with tea can kill coronavirus.


