
Man drank pint of disinfectant after Donald Trump suggested it as Covid-19 treatment



The number of calls to a poison exposure hotline doubled after Donald Trump suggested injections of disinfectant as a possible coronavirus treatment (Pictures: Reuters)


A man was hospitalized after he drank a full pint of disinfectant after Donald Trump suggested it as a possible treatment for Covid-19.

The director of the Georgia Poison Center, Gaylord Lopez, said that the man was rushed to a medical center on Saturday after he admitted he ingested 16 ounces of bleach ‘to prevent Covid.’
Lopez added that the man, who has not been identified, has a history of psychiatric issues.

‘He said that he took 16 ounces.
I don’t know very many patients who will take 16 ounces, but then again, it is a psych history patient,’ Lopez told The Atlanta Journal-Constitution, adding that the man was taken to a psychiatric ward and later released.

The horrific incident came days after Donald Trump seemingly suggested ingesting disinfectants and ultraviolet light as a possible treatment for coronavirus last week.


‘So, supposing we hit the body with a tremendous — whether it’s ultraviolet or just very powerful light — and I think you said that hasn’t been checked but you’re going to test it,’ Trump said during a White House press conference with coronavirus task force coordinator Dr Deborah Birx.


To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video


‘And then I said, supposing you brought the light inside of the body, which you can do either through the skin or in some other way.
And I think you said you’re going to test that, too.
Sounds interesting.’

‘I see the disinfectant — where it knocks it out in a minute, one minute.
And is there a way we can do something like that, by injection inside or almost a cleaning?’
Trump continued.
The president later claimed his remarks were sarcastic, with backlash against his dangerous theory prompting him to drastically scale back his daily coronavirus briefings.


Lopez said the man who poisoned himself with the pint of bleach was not the state’s only recent case that saw a person ingest disinfectant.
He said another man was recently hospitalized after he drank a mixture of Pine-sol, mouthwash, beer and pain medication.
Lopez added that it is unclear whether Trump’s remarks influenced the men.

States across the country have seen a spike in calls to poison control after Trump’s suggestion, which he later claimed was taken out of context.
According to NPR, calls to Poison Control are approximately double what they were at this time last year.


To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video


In New York, the nation’s coronavirus epicenter, call reportedly skyrocketed in the 18 hours following Trump remarks.
New York City’s Department of Health and Mental Hygiene spokesman Pedro Frisneda said nine calls were ‘specifically about exposure to Lysol, 10 cases specifically about bleach and 11 cases about exposures to other household cleaners.’

However, when asked about whether he feels at all responsible for the spike in disinfectant-based poisoning cases, Trump said he ‘can’t imagine why’ people would be ingesting disinfectant.


