
Do you feel that the COVID-19 virus is worse than the AIDS virus?


This is a bit like comparing apples to oranges, but it’s obviously worse in some ways just by seeing response.

When the mortality rate comes out, after the crisis has passed, it will be seen tgat the fatality rate is not that different, given the place involved is not overwhelmed, and with adequate testing.
This can already be seen in Germany, where the mortality rate is only about 0.5% compared to the flu, which is 0.1%.
However, the flu mortality rate is known, whereas for Coronavirus it’s a guess, and us bound to be high because many people are asymptomatic, so it’s not known how many have t


Epidemics end in one of three ways:

1- Everyone who can get infected gets infected (see Black Death in Medieval Europe, Smallpox in Age of Exploration Americas, Spanish Flu in 1918–1920)

2- Government action finds everyone who is sick, quarantines them, and prevents further spreading (see Wuhan China, 2020, SARS in China In 2002, Ebola in West Africa, 2018)

3- Transmission slows in warm/dry weather (see influenza, every year)

We don’t know yet if Covid-19 will slow down when the Northern Hemisphere turns to Spring.
Right now China is succeeding at #2, South Korea is trying, and rumor has it Italy


Is Covid-19, 2 viruses in 1?

There has been a lot of this even in the daily newspapers.
I notice that the experts don't usually answer this question when it is asked on TV.
Nobody is going there and I came across it in the early days of Covid-19 when there was a lot of speculation about the virus.

There were some similarities in that it usually finally killed because of a weak immune system.

and this:

Does the new coronavirus contain HIV?

No.
An analysis of the genetic code of the virus shows small similarities with HIV, but that is not surprising: "the hereditary code of the virus has about as man


They're totally different

What Is HIV?

HIV (human immunodeficiency virus) is a virus that attacks cells that help the body fight infection, making a person more vulnerable to other infections and diseases.
It is spread by contact with certain bodily fluids of a person with HIV, most commonly during unprotected sex (sex without a condom or HIV medicine to prevent or treat HIV), or through sharing injection drug equipment.

If left untreated, HIV can lead to the disease AIDS (acquired immunodeficiency syndrome).

The human body can’t get rid of HIV and no effective HIV cure exists.
So, once you have H


I don’t think that this is meant to be a literal question.

Some answered that Trump was more dangerous; some said that the government was more dangerous than CoVID-19.

Both those answers are true.
However, there is another answer that we need to acknowledge, realize and do something about.

That is, "We, the people".
We are more dangerous than CoVID-19 because of our ignorance and our apathy.

It is true that the Trump presidency is extraordinarily dangerous - but he is not really that different from many of our politicians.
He just happens to be crude and distasteful on top of being a regular polit


Viruses with a low mutation rate like chicken pox get fought off once you catch it so you can never catch it again.
The HIV virus continuously evolves because of the Red Queen hypothesis.
The HIV virus particles with a faster mutation rate outcompete the ones with a slower mutation rate because once the body adapts to them, they can mutate to escape being fought off by the body.
That in turn creates natural selection for virus particles with a faster mutation rate.
The common cold has a lower mutation rate because those common cold virus particles with a faster mutation rate are less likely to


One of the factors which determines how infectious a virus is, is how tough the virus particles themselves are outside the body.
Do they get destroyed easily?

In the case of blood borne viruses the answer is yes, that's why you can't catch HIV from toilet seats or door handles or shaking hands.
The virus after it leaves the body becomes damaged by the cold, by drying, by uv light etc.
So sharing needles, having unprotected sex or receiving contaminated blood products with someone infected stands a high chance of causing infection.

Coronavirus/SARS-Cov-2 virus seems to survive outside the body fo


If their HIV disease is being adequately treated and their blood cells and virus levels are good their chances would seem to be pretty good of having a good outcome Good outcome is doctor-speak for being alive and mostly intact after the illness.

I think folks with this condition should be consulting with their HIV doctors and may need to be monitored closely.
It would be a consideration like anybody else with a significant disease, like hypertension, diabetes, or heart disease.

Here is what the US Government office at Homepage says:

"We are still learning about COVID-19 and how it affects people


