
No evidence of Remdesivir's effectiveness in treating Covid patients: WHO


Earlier, keeping in mind the sudden spike in its demand, the government of India had put a ban on the export of Remdesivir and its Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients (API).
(Image: Reuters)


Amid the surge in demand for antiviral drug Remdesivir, the World Health Organization (WHO) has said that there is still no evidence to suggest that the drug is useful in treating hospitalised Covid-19 patients.

WHO's Chief Scientist Dr Soumya Swaminathan and its Technical Lead on Covid, Dr Maria Van Kerkhove on Monday told India Today TV that results from five clinical trials in the past suggest that the use of Remdesivir has not helped in reducing mortality or reducing the need for mechanical ventilation among hospitalised patients.

Speaking about the previous clinical trials of Remdesivir, Dr Swaminathan said, "Based on available evidence, there were about five trials... which essentially showed that Remdesivir given to hospitalised patients, didn't reduce mortality, it didn't reduce the duration of hospitalisation and it didn't affect the progression of the disease".

WHO GUIDELINES ON REMDESIVIR

Based on the clinical trials, the WHO had issued guidelines against the use of Remdesivir in hospitalised patients last year.

WHO Technical Lead Dr Van Kerkhove said, "We currently have made a conditional recommendation against the use of Remdesivir for hospitalised Covid patients, regardless of the disease's severity because of lack of evidence showing that it improves survival and other outcomes but we are constantly looking at clinical trials that are underway."

The guidelines development group of WHO puts out guidance on possible treatments of Covid-19.
The guidance is a living document that can change with more data from clinical trials.

"We are looking at any emerging data which will be used to update the guidelines," Dr Maria Van Kerkhove added.

SILVER LINING IN CASE OF REMDESIVIR

Pointing out the only possible silver lining in the case of Remdesivir, Dr Swaminathan said, "There are smaller studies that have shown, in some small subgroups, perhaps some marginal benefits, like some patients who need low flow oxygen, the NIH trial showed that there was perhaps a marginal mortality benefit but that is a very small subgroup of patients."

They further added that the global health body was still awaiting results from a larger clinical trial to see if the drug could be helpful in the treatment of Covid cases at all.

The data of the trial is likely to come up in a few weeks time.
Meanwhile, there have been several cases of black-marketing and hoarding of the drug.

INDIA BANS EXPORT OF REMDESIVIR AMID SPIKE IN DEMAND

Earlier, keeping in mind the sudden spike in its demand, the government of India had put a ban on the export of Remdesivir and its Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients (API).
Remdesivir injections are being frequently prescribed by doctors for the treatment of Covid-19 cases in India.

ALSO READ: India exported 11 lakh Remdesivir injections in last 6 months: Govt sources ALSO READ: Active Covid cases in India climb to 11 lakh, states battle surge as Centre launches 'Tika Utsav' WATCH: Second Covid wave: Does the vaccine policy need a total overhaul?


