
Disinfo: Covid-19 is a French-made virus transferred by the Americans


China has been exposed to the Coronavirus epidemic in the Chinese city of Wuhan since the fall of 2019, specifically after the Military Olympics in that city.
Chinese leaders consider that the epidemic was introduced to China by the American military delegation participating in these games.
What caused the Chinese suspicions was the allegation of the CDC chief Robert Redfield, that a number of infections were discovered in the United States before it spread in China.
But there is another story that says that the virus is French-made (made in 2003 with its disease) and was transferred to a Chinese-French joint laboratory that opened in 2017 in the city of Wuhan.
Bats were experimented on, but one of the bats escaped from the laboratory and the epidemic occurred.
However, regardless of the accounts and their accuracy, it became clear that the greatest possibility is that the virus is man-made and not caused by nature, and therefore it open questions about the bacterial experiments in laboratories and their feasibility and the possibility of turning them into a weapon of mass destruction.
The US administration’s decision to punish anyone who contributes and provides aid to the Islamic Republic of Iran, which has been severely affected by the coronavirus epidemic, is the best proof of the administration’s component and lack of humanity.

Conspiracy theories about the2019-nCoV coronavirus, there is no evidence that suggests that thecoronavirus (2019-nCoV) is used as a weapon against other states.
The virus was first reported in the Chinese city of Wuhan in central China and has been rapidly spreading with new cases being reported in thein almost every country around the world, including the United States and France, causing 234073 confirmed cases and 9840 deaths spread in177 countries/territories/areas up until 20 March 2020.
Furthermore,a group of 27 prominent public health scientists, "strongly condemn conspiracy theories suggesting that COVID-19 does not have a natural origin", and they "overwhelmingly conclude that this coronavirus originated in wildlife," just like many other viruses that have recently emerged in humans.
On the 11th of March, the head of the CDC Robert Redfield told the US House Oversight Committee that some deaths from coronavirus have been discovered posthumously [...]after some flu patients may have been misdiagnosed.
He did not claim that infections in the US were discovered before they spread in China.
The disinformation claims were made in relation to acertificate that dates back to 2004 and which certifies a discovery of a genetic code of a different virus named "SARS-CoV".
Although the virus also belongs to the Coronavirus family, it is not the 2019-nCoV coronavirus.
Read more about the AFP debunking of these claimshere.
The US Treasury announced on the 27th of February that it was lifting some terrorism-related sanctions on the Central Bank of Iran, which re-opens a channel for humanitarian trade that had been closed since September 2019.
The medicines are being sent to Iran through businesses in Switzerland, whose government has acted as a conduit between Washington and Tehran.


