
8 drugs Trump has been given for his COVID-19 treatment


Please research vitamin D before parroting the Times by jotting down that "There is no evidence vitamin D directly reduces the risk of COVID-19."
Numerous small studies have shown consistent results that it is likely that an adequate vitamin D level decreases the risk of contracting SARS-CoV-2 and if contracted, of developing severe COVID-19.
Two prospective studies have suggested that administration of vitamin D at the time of hospital admission for COVID decrease and may even dramatically the risk of needing oxygen therapy, needing ICU support and of dying from COVID-19-related illness, including a RCT pilot for a larger, ongoing RCT in Spain.


Great post.
Likely, everyone in the upper age group should have consideration for vitamin D, either from sunlight exposure or as a supplement.


I take 5000 a day since I have low Vitamin D.
Most people do if they get it checked.
I’m prescribed to take that much, and my Doctor said 30 mg of Zinc would be okay.
I’m MO, and Diabetic 54 years old.
I also take 1500 of Vitamin C a day.
I had thyroid cancer, and had my thyroid removed.
They are constantly messing with my medication.
I’ve been on a special diet for 6 weeks 800-1000 calories a day.
60 carbs or less.
An have loss 1 lb.
I had loss almost a 100 when they started changing my meds.
I was eating 1200 calorie diet.
No I can’t lose a pound.
That’s not back in a day or two.
So I’m probably toast if I get this stuff.


You're on a great regimen though....A friend of mine totally eradicated his Diabetes with a low carb diet.
He hasn't lost much weight either, but the disease went away because he started the diet so soon....You are five years younger than me, by the way....and 15 years younger than him....Just in case you're starting to feel old....You're not!.....Cheers, dear...


Women need D3 after 50.
D3 is good for pain also.
I take D3-2,000 IU AM PM.
I have had lessened pain with my chronic Osteoarthritis, "dry"joints and degeneration.
If anyone would get COVID-19 it would be me.
I have been exposed to COVID-19 and tested Negative several times.
I wear a mask before opening my door, before I leave home, I take mask off when I get in my car, wear mask outside car, even when ordering drive thru.
Many drive through have plexi-glass, but the glass is above the openings and the customer is below the plexi.
Contagion will protect anyone behind plexi if they are above the opening, the person below plexi opening is at risk.
The best position is the old fashion bank teller plexi where all transactions occur with people above the openings at bottom of plexi.
In a medical faciity the workers should be higher than the people seeking treatment.
Anyone in position where others breath DOWN on them is at risk.
I forgot: I started voting when I reached vote age:1967.
I am no spring chicken.
Good Luck.
Take your Vit.C, Calcium, Zinc, magnesium, and whatever your docs tell you.
I have not been sick (knock on wood, Pray) since 2017.
I live in FLA and we are open.
Our problem comes from people from outside FLA.
We still have lower cases of COVID-19 than any other State> so far.
The spike occurred when "Snow Birds"came to FLA.
It has leveled off now.
Be Well.


Look into Youngevity supplements.


There is something wrong with the response of the media and many of our colleagues to the pandemic.
There is criticism of everything even benign therapies like Vitamin D.


ikr....They always do that with vitamins, though....It's illegal to make any claims, especially by Drs, that vitamins work...but everyone kind of knows they work great.....


DITTO!
They just have to stick their wooden nooses into everything.
It is good their noses keep getting longer.
I think MSM especially CNN, MSNBC and Amanpour (she is living in UK.
She spreads lies everywhere).
are always lying.
They are fools and they are kept away from COVID-19 by sitting on their arses all the time.
I hope they all loose out and American People put them out of business.
They are as bad as Dan Rather!
TRUMP did not change the MSM- they all are simply BAD people to begin with.


You are discussing studies that show improved hospitalization outcomes with vitamin D, not that vitamin D reduces the risk of transmission.
That's an enormous difference.

Do you mind providing a citation?


.. at the time of hospital admission ..
Gimme a break ..
I went to grad school with you premed "students" .. good try ..


Ha ha ha.....yeah, but it's the prez, so uh, maybe.....They were jumping through hoops for him...


He should have been given alsoDOXYLIN 200mg (re: Ther.
Advan.Resp.Dis.
Sept.
2020).


Your expert on Famotidine reveals little knowledge of the effectiveness of H2 acid blockers in treatment of Non-esophageal Reflux diseases.
Nor to the long history of their use in Intensive care settings .
Reduction of stomach acids has long been a mainstay to reduce airway inflammation, laryngeal , and eben ocular inflammation.


It seem like the President is doing pretty well as far as Covid-19 goes.
I’m hopeful for amici and full recovery.


I'm sorry - but isn't this PHI?
How come the President of the United States isn't protected by healthcare privacy laws?


President probably signed a release of information form, Patricia


I am surprised he was not given Eliquis or some anticoagulant fir a few weeks Also Vit C


Yeah......Vit C!...


Who gives a fuck PHI


Ummm...would you like your medical information plastered all over the news?


Is this article hinting that President Trump's doctor may have performed below the standard by giving him a group of unproven or possibly harmful drugs?


Pretended to catch the Covid19, what a liar.


Sorry Gup, you have been brainwashed by the poisoness Mainstream Media.
They got you by the shorthairs and you're clueless or, are you just one unhappy, bitter dude?


A lot of people, actually, are of the belief that it was a hoax....but, you're right.....It is a pretty jaded concept to most of us........Just .like the Flat Earther notion....Tons and tons of people believe it, but it's still a small percentage of the population, and no where near the majority...


I know I’m commenting on an old comment, but my husband had covid and he had it bad for 2 days.
He was up and about the 3rd day and was back to normal in a week.


Could be.....They kind of have to be careful about what claims are made, though.
They kind of had to do it like that though, because he is the prez....Nobody wants a high profile failure like that, so they were on it fast...


Aspirin is used to prevent platelets from sticking together to form blood clots in Arteries, Veins or the Heart.
Aspirin has not proven to "PREVENT heart disease".
Doctors prescribe Aspirin to HELP PREVENT heart attacks or stroke CAUSED by blood clots.
Blood clots can block blood flow to your heart or brain causing heart attack or stroke.
Aspirin or anticoagulants are used Almost everyone with A-Fib, coronary artery disease including those who have HAD a heart attack, a stent, or CABG surgery, are treated with Aspirin.
It is used in low dose to keep blood clots from forming.
Aspirin can help to prevent ischemic stroke.
It also helps if you HAVE HAD a heart attack, TIA, stroke, or if you have heart problems.
Doctor will prescribe the best the drug best for you based on your risk of blood clots and bleeding.
**Aspirin has to be managed by a physician because of history of possible complications with use of Aspirin.


Since when did the New York Times get their medical degree!?


