
Coronavirus: US says Russia behind disinformation campaign


Thousands of Russian-linked social media accounts have launched a coordinated effort to spread misinformation and alarm about coronavirus, disrupting global efforts to fight the epidemic, US officials have said.

The disinformation campaign promotes unfounded conspiracy theories that the US is behind the new coronavirus outbreak, in an apparent bid to damage America’s image around the world.

State department officials tasked with combatting Russian disinformation told Agence France-Presse (AFP) false personas were being used on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram to advance Russian talking points in multiple languages.

"Russia’s intent is to sow discord and undermine US institutions and alliances from within, including through covert and coercive malign influence campaigns," said Philip Reeker, the acting assistant secretary of state for Europe and Eurasia.

"By spreading disinformation about coronavirus, Russian malign actors are once again choosing to threaten public safety by distracting from the global health response," he said.

Some accounts have falsely claimed the US is waging "economic war on China" and that the virus is a biological weapon manufactured by the CIA.

Health officials identified the new coronavirus in late 2019, and called it Covid-19.
It was initially linked to a live animal market in the city of Wuhan, in the Hubei province of China.
Coronaviruses are thought to come from animals and then spread from person to person.

In four out of five people, Covid-19 causes only mild respiratory illness, the World Health Organization (WHO) has said.
But in some, the virus can cause severe respiratory illness including pneumonia.
In the worst cases, it can cause respiratory failure.

Covid-19 has killed more than 2,340 people, mostly in China, and infected more than 76,000.
The US has tested more than 400 people and found 14 confirmed cases, mostly linked to travelers.

A similar outbreak in 2003 involved the Sars virus, which was thought to have come from bats.

Experts said the coronavirus disinformation campaign has parallels with previous conspiracy theories traced to Moscow, including a KGB disinformation campaign in the 1980s that convinced many around the world that US scientists created the HIV virus that causes Aids.

Several thousand online accounts – previously identified for airing Russian-backed messages on major events such as the war in Syria, the Yellow Vest protests in France and Chile’s mass demonstrations – are posting "near identical" messages about the coronavirus, according to a report prepared for the state department’s Global Engagement Center and seen by AFP.

The accounts are run by humans, not bots, and post at similar times in English, Spanish, Italian, German and French.
They can be linked back to Russian proxies, or carry messages similar to Russian-backed outlets such as RT and Sputnik, the report said.

"In this case, we were able to see their full disinformation ecosystem in effect, including state TV, proxy websites and thousands of false social media personas all pushing the same themes," said Lea Gabrielle, the head of the Global Engagement Center, which is tasked with tracking and exposing propaganda and disinformation.

The US believes the Russian disinformation campaign is making it harder to respond to the epidemic, particularly in Africa and Asia, as some of the public has become suspicious of the western response.

The WHO warned on Friday that the window to stem the global outbreak was narrowing, voicing alarm at a surge of cases with no clear link to China.

A state official said Russian operatives appeared to have been given "carte blanche" to attack the US.

"Whether or not a particular theme is being directed at the highest levels doesn’t matter," the official said.
"It’s the fact that they have freelance ability to operate in this space to do whatever damage they can, which could have seismic implications."

As 2021 unfolds ...


... we have a small favour to ask.
Through these turbulent and challenging times, millions rely on the Guardian for independent journalism that stands for truth and integrity.
Readers chose to support us financially more than 1.5 million times in 2020, joining existing supporters in 180 countries.

For 2021, we’re committing to another year of high-impact reporting that can counter misinformation and offer an authoritative, trustworthy source of news for everyone.
With no shareholders or billionaire owner, we set our own agenda and provide independent journalism that’s free from commercial and political influence.
When it’s never mattered more, we can investigate and challenge without fear or favour.

Unlike many others, we have never put up a paywall.
We have chosen to keep Guardian journalism free and open for all readers, regardless of where they live or what they can afford to pay.
We do this because we believe everyone deserves to read accurate news and thoughtful analysis.

In the last year alone, we offered readers a comprehensive, international perspective on critical events – from the Black Lives Matter protests, to the US presidential election, Brexit, and the ongoing pandemic.
We enhanced our reputation for urgent, powerful reporting on the climate emergency, and made the decision to reject advertising from fossil fuel companies, divest from the oil and gas industries, and set a course to achieve net zero emissions by 2030.

If there were ever a time to join us, it is now.
Every contribution, however big or small, powers our journalism and helps sustain our future.
Support the Guardian from as little as $1 – it only takes a minute.
Thank you.


