
Azithromycin for community treatment of suspected COVID-19 in people at increased risk of an adverse clinical course in the UK (PRINCIPLE): a randomised, controlled, open-label, adaptive platform trial


Background


Azithromycin, an antibiotic with potential antiviral and anti-inflammatory properties, has been used to treat COVID-19, but evidence from community randomised trials is lacking.
We aimed to assess the effectiveness of azithromycin to treat suspected COVID-19 among people in the community who had an increased risk of complications.

Methods


In this UK-based, primary care, open-label, multi-arm, adaptive platform randomised trial of interventions against COVID-19 in people at increased risk of an adverse clinical course (PRINCIPLE), we randomly assigned people aged 65 years and older, or 50 years and older with at least one comorbidity, who had been unwell for 14 days or less with suspected COVID-19, to usual care plus azithromycin 500 mg daily for three days, usual care plus other interventions, or usual care alone.
The trial had two coprimary endpoints measured within 28 days from randomisation: time to first self-reported recovery, analysed using a Bayesian piecewise exponential, and hospital admission or death related to COVID-19, analysed using a Bayesian logistic regression model.
Eligible participants with outcome data were included in the primary analysis, and those who received the allocated treatment were included in the safety analysis.
The trial is registered with ISRCTN, ISRCTN86534580.

Findings


The first participant was recruited to PRINCIPLE on April 2, 2020.
The azithromycin group enrolled participants between May 22 and Nov 30, 2020, by which time 2265 participants had been randomly assigned, 540 to azithromycin plus usual care, 875 to usual care alone, and 850 to other interventions.
2120 (94%) of 2265 participants provided follow-up data and were included in the Bayesian primary analysis, 500 participants in the azithromycin plus usual care group, 823 in the usual care alone group, and 797 in other intervention groups.
402 (80%) of 500 participants in the azithromycin plus usual care group and 631 (77%) of 823 participants in the usual care alone group reported feeling recovered within 28 days.
We found little evidence of a meaningful benefit in the azithromycin plus usual care group in time to first reported recovery versus usual care alone (hazard ratio 1·08, 95% Bayesian credibility interval [BCI] 0·95 to 1·23), equating to an estimated benefit in median time to first recovery of 0·94 days (95% BCI −0·56 to 2·43).
The probability that there was a clinically meaningful benefit of at least 1·5 days in time to recovery was 0·23.
16 (3%) of 500 participants in the azithromycin plus usual care group and 28 (3%) of 823 participants in the usual care alone group were hospitalised (absolute benefit in percentage 0·3%, 95% BCI −1·7 to 2·2).
There were no deaths in either study group.
Safety outcomes were similar in both groups.
Two (1%) of 455 participants in the azothromycin plus usual care group and four (1%) of 668 participants in the usual care alone group reported admission to hospital during the trial, not related to COVID-19.

Interpretation


Our findings do not justify the routine use of azithromycin for reducing time to recovery or risk of hospitalisation for people with suspected COVID-19 in the community.
These findings have important antibiotic stewardship implications during this pandemic, as inappropriate use of antibiotics leads to increased antimicrobial resistance, and there is evidence that azithromycin use increased during the pandemic in the UK.

Funding


Identifying treatments that can be used to speed recovery and reduce hospitalisations due to COVID-19 in the community is critically important, particularly among older adults and people with comorbidities, who are at a high risk of adverse outcomes.

1


Azithromycin, a licensed, widely available, cheap, and generally safe drug has been proposed as a treatment for COVID-19, with in-vitro studies suggesting activity against some viruses, including SARS-CoV-2.

2

,

3


Azithromycin might increase the pH of the Golgi network and recycling endosome,

4


which could in turn interfere with intracellular SARS-CoV-2 activity and replication.
The drug might also reduce levels of the enzyme furin;

4


this could interfere with the ability of SARS-CoV-2 to enter cells, as the virus is believed to have a furin-like cleavage site in the spike protein.

5


The ability of azithromycin to reduce the levels of proinflammatory cytokines, such as IL-6,

6


could reduce the ability of SARS-CoV-2 infection to trigger a cytokine storm, along with associated tissue damage.
Furthermore, some patients with viral respiratory illness might develop a secondary bacterial infection or present with a bacterial co-infection, which azithromycin could effectively treat.
Azithromycin use in primary care has increased during the COVID-19 pandemic,

7


which could contribute to antimicrobial resistance.

8


Research in context

We searched PubMed on Jan 24, 2021, using the following search terms [(randomised OR trial) AND (azithromycin OR macrolide) AND (COVID* OR SARS-CoV-2 OR SARS-CoV)], with no language restrictions, and identified 243 results.
Adding a filter for clinical trials limited the number of results to 16.
Of these, we identified two randomised clinical trials with over 100 participants that provided some data on the effectiveness of azithromycin as a treatment for COVID-19 compared with control treatment or usual care.
Additional searches of medRxiv and Google Scholar on Jan 24, 2021, using similar search terms with no language restrictions, identified a further randomised clinical trial of azithromycin.
All identified trials were in hospitalised patients.
A large randomised trial among patients hospitalised with COVID-19 in the UK found no difference in 28-day mortality, duration of hospital stay or treatment in hospital, or intensive care unit admissions among 2582 participants randomly assigned to receive azithromycin versus 5181 participants randomly assigned to receive usual care alone.
A randomised trial in Brazil among 675 patients admitted to hospital with mild to moderate COVID-19 found no difference in clinical status by 15 days among patients randomly assigned to receive usual care plus azithromycin and hydroxychloroquine versus usual care plus hydroxychloroquine, versus usual care alone.
A trial by the same group, among 447 patients admitted to hospital with severe COVID-19, found that patients randomly assigned to azithromycin plus hydroxychloroquine, versus hydroxychloroquine alone, had poorer clinical status at 15 days, although outcomes were more similar between the two groups by 29 days.
We identified no randomised clinical trials of azithromycin as a treatment for COVID-19 in the community.

All three randomised clinical trials that we identified were in hospital settings, and only one assessed azithromycin as a standalone therapy for COVID-19.
To our knowledge, PRINCIPLE is the first randomised trial to assess the effectiveness and safety of azithromycin as a standalone treatment for patients with COVID-19 in the community.
We found that azithromycin did not substantially improve time to recovery and found little evidence of an effect on admissions to hospital, when used in the community to treat COVID-19.

Taken together, our findings plus the evidence to date suggest that azithromycin is not a sufficiently effective treatment to justify routine use for treatment of COVID-19, neither in the community nor in hospitals.

Randomised trials have found that azithromycin is not an effective treatment for patients who are admitted to hospital with COVID-19, either alone or in combination with hydroxychloroquine.

9

,

10

,

11


However, there is a paucity of evidence regarding the effectiveness of azithromycin for treatment of suspected COVID-19 in the community, where earlier treatment might speed recovery and prevent hospital admissions.
We aimed to assess the effectiveness of azithromycin to treat COVID-19 in the platform randomised trial of interventions against COVID-19 in older people (PRINCIPLE) study.


