
Are masks necessary amid coronavirus outbreak?
Health officials say 'maybe not'


News

Hamilton County Health Department leaders say they are taking the spread of the coronavirus seriously, but right now, there is no need to panic.


Many Americans, worried about the coronavirus outbreak in China, are scrambling to buy face masks in case the disease spreads closer to home, but are they necessary?

Hamilton County Health Department leaders say they are taking the spread of the coronavirus seriously, but right now, there is no need to panic.

"We're working to prepare for the worst, but hoping for the best," Health officer Paul Hendricks said.
"The last thing anyone needs to do is panic, but at the same time, I think everyone needs to stay informed."

Surgical masks are a constant, grim accessory on the streets of China, and they have prompted people in the U.S. to stock up.

Pharmacies around the country have posted signs they are sold out of masks.

"Do you need to wear a mask just walking out as a general rule, when you're not around a lot of people?
Maybe not," Hendricks explained.
"Although, for some people, they feel more comfortable with that, and there's no harm in it."

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention says masks are not usually recommended in "non-healthcare settings."

However, they may help patients with respiratory illnesses, healthcare workers or people who are unvaccinated.

"Certainly, if you're in a situation where you're at high risk or you're going to be around a lot of people in a close situation you can't avoid, then, the CDC has pointed out there may be some benefit to that, so we wouldn't discourage that," Hendricks said.

The risk of contracting the coronavirus in the U.S. remains low at this point.
Health officials recommend the basics for preventing any type of respiratory illness.

"Washing your hands, washing surfaces that you are working on to prevent the spread of viruses.
If you are sick or if you are coughing or sneezing, covering your mouth, covering your throat or covering your nose," Hendricks added.

The CDC does, however, recommend a specialized type of mask for healthcare workers, who are in contact with coronavirus patients.
It's called the N-95 Respirator.

The masks are thicker and fitted to a person's face.
Many stores in our area are sold out of them and may not be getting new shipments.

The Chattanooga-Hamilton County Health Department will meet with area hospitals next week to talk about the new virus and a preparation plan.


