
Is Coronavirus a scam?
Is it not even deadly and it’s just the flu?


I'm hearing the Coronavirus is fake.
Can someone explain how it's fake and what every country’s agenda is pushing something that isn't real?

The Virus is not fake.
The hype of the msm, leftist politicians, and those afraid of whatever the "fear du jour" they come up with is what’s fake.
As of this morning in the US, in a population of 330 million, 3.53 million ( a little over 1% of the population) have been infected, 138 thousand have died.

Most of the people who have died were over 60 and had underlying problems, many were life-ending by themselves.
In some places anyone who died for any reason


I see this a lot on social media.
Mainly to justify their secondary argument about vaccines.
Or, not getting them.

Trump declared it fake in January.
Since then like the chloroquine it’s hard to get rid of.
In Spite of the hundreds of tests showing HCQ doesn’t help in the treatment of CV people still believe the contrary.
I know people who are convinced it is a plot by the illuminati or B Gates.
Allowing Gates to deploy his infamous vaccine to cull the population as the chemtrails aren’t doing it fast enough.

I argue the if world can’t even agree on global warming how the hell could it agree on


Some Don't believe it as real because of this

Revelation 13:16 (KJV) And he causeth all, both small and great, rich and poor, free and bond, to receive a mark in their right hand, or in their foreheads:

Revelation 13:17 (KJV) And that no man might buy or sell, save he that had the mark, or the name of the beast, or the number of his name.

Revelation 13:18 (KJV) Here is wisdom.
Let him that hath understanding count the number of the beast: for it is the number of a man; and his number is Six hundred threescore and six.


And bill gates Vaccine has Said 060606 Many believe This is the End times Asw


Of course it's fake… something non existent is killing approximately 1 American per minute.
We have over 150,000 people dead from a fairy tale virus.
Over 4 million cases of the imaginary virus infection are driving people to hospital emergency rooms and intensive care units, making them filled to capacity with people suffering from a fantasy virus that causes respiratory failure, cardiac arrest, clots, sepsis… yes, none of it is true… !
I guess the rest of the world's 17,464,995 cases and 676,409 fatalities are not real either… hmph!
Someone should tell the spouses, children, parents, grandpa


the narrative that COVID-19 is fake is being pushed by people with no sense of responsibility or empathy for others.
They consider steps taken or recommended to limit spread of the disease (like wearing face masks in public) as an unwarranted imposition on their lives.
They listen only to people who agree with them, and discount whatever they don't like as " fake news. "

To date, only one percent of the U.S. population has been infected as far as we know, and the majority of those cases have been mild.
The roughly half a million citizens who have been hospitalized or have died are tucked out of


It’s NOT fake.
150,000 people have died … just in tge USA alone.
Exactly, why should anybody want to say that this is happening if it isn’t?
How many deaths do the conspiracy theorists think it’s possible to fake?

As far as I know death is a matter of public record everywhere.
You can look it up.
But I would like to call upon people who have suffered losses, whose family and friends have died to step forward and say this is not a lie and provide pictures of The lost people that they loved.
Probably because people are so stunned by the effect of the virus On human beings on the economy there doe


Ben are you that gulable or nieve?
This is real no matter what stupid rumors you heard!
In the United States here we have about 2,000.000 cases of the Corona Virus reported by the CDC.
My State and 31 others are on lockdown now.We have curfews to uphold,and every week now almost 60,000 more cases of Corona Viruses.I have friends and family that have died of this Corona Virus.
So do you wish to look lightly at this Pandemic?
Donald Trump doesn't give a rats ass about all of the people who died from the Corona Virus these past four months!
He knew about this Covid 19 pandemic since last December


True, it is fake, just as fake as Mt Everest is fake and the Pacific Ocean is fake!
Right now there are 139,000 DEAD Americans who would take issue with the idea that it is fake, that is, if they were able to speak from the grave!
There are also a lot of people who, though they did not die, were very, very sick and many of them kept alive only because of a ventilator (which is extremely uncomfortable by the way).
If it is a fake then the people who perpetrated it sure fooled a lot of people in a lot of countries and ruined the lives of millions of people.
No, it is absolutely NOT A FAKE and an


A) If that is what you are hearing, you need to change your sources of information immediately.

B) No, the virus which causes Covid-19 is NOT fake.
An illusion did not kill more than HALF A MILLION people in less than seven months.
A serious viral pandemic did.

C) NO country has an agenda about "…pushing something that isn't real…"

Countries do not shut themselves and their entire economy down for an imaginary will of the wisp.
Politicians do not insist on policies which damage their own state's economy and their people’s daily lives unless they are VERY CERTAIN that these policies are absolutely


