
Can a sauna protect you against the Coronavirus?
[All Viruses &amp;amp; Infections]



Can a sauna protect you against the Coronavirus?


Your first line of defence against the Coronavirus is to avoid situations where you may be infected by it.

Your second line of defence is to strengthen your body as much as possible so you can resist its effects.
Sauna usage is proved to be an extremely useful tool in boosting your body’s immune system so that it is in the strongest possible position to fight off any virus of infection.

Here is a quick guide to what you need to know about the Coronavirus and how to deal with it.

Boosting your immune system


Regardless of how many precautions you take, the simple fact is that everyone is at risk of contracting the Coronavirus and, bluntly, those with the best physical health, including the strongest immune systems, will be in the best position to resist it.

You’re probably already familiar with the basics of good health, such as getting proper nutrition, taking regular exercise and getting enough sleep and do your best with each of these on a daily basis.
However, one of the best ways to immediately ‘take care’ and boost your body’s abilities to battle infections and viruses is with a sauna.

In the context of the Coronavirus, the virus is an infection like any other (albeit, nastier than most) and you can protect yourself in the same way.

Most of the benefits of a sauna stem from the heat

The hot environment actually tricks the body into thinking it has a virus or infection.
This is why you get a fever when you’re ill, it’s the body’s natural response to combat illness.
A sauna reproduces this fever and the body sets off in creating antibodies, blood cells and setting itself up for combating the infection it believes it has because of this simulated fever.

A sauna is like an exercise bike for the immune system – It trains it to be better, stronger and gives it a workout


Regular sauna usage has the following proven additional benefits to name a few:


Detoxification of the body via perspiration


Kills bacteria and viruses


Increased blood flow and antibody production


Fewer symptoms of asthma


Saunas improve cardiovascular performance


Saunas Can Induce a Deeper Sleep



Blood is the body’s transport system.
If you’re going through the efforts of eating a healthy diet, you want all the nutrients to be transported around the body as efficiently as possible, along with plenty of oxygen.
You also want any toxins to be removed from your body as quickly as possible to stop these being delivered along with the good stuff.
Increasing blood flow achieves both objectives (and sweating also helps with the second)

Reducing stress may not seem like it will be of great help against the Coronavirus but there is plenty of evidence to show that stress negatively impacts physical health, including lowering the effectiveness of the immune system, which is obviously the exact opposite of what you want right now.

FACT: The reason sweat smells, because it’s almost identical to urine and you body just does not want this toxic waste product which is why it is so happy to get rid of it and you should take all steps not to ‘stockpile it’

FACT: German sauna medical research proves that saunas were able to significantly reduce the incidences of colds and influenza amongst participants.
As the body is exposed to the heat of a sauna and steam (in the case of traditional saunas), it produces white blood cells more rapidly, which in turn helps to fight illnesses and helps to kill viruses.

In addition, saunas can relieve the uncomfortable symptoms of sinus congestion from colds or allergies – especially when used with steam (steam showers or traditional saunas ) (tip: add menthol oils to the water for added benefit and overall enjoyment).
The steam vapor action helps to clear up unwanted congestion

FACT: Infrared saunas are MUCH healthier than traditional saunas


Believe it or not, this is true, although still beneficial to health, the use of a ‘wet steam’ that may be preferable to some uses compared to a dry heat is not as good for you as infrared.
Although the old Scandinavian practice of a traditional sauna is still beneficial, it is now really outdated.
Whereas an infrared sauna penetrates deep into the skin, a traditional steam sauna literally only hits the surface.
That’s also not to say that all infrared saunas are equal, most infrared saunas use only FAR infrared which is designed to penetrate the deepest into the skin, but skips past the skin itself and the immediate areas below.
FAR infrared is the most beneficial but it is believed that by using FULL-SPECTRUM heaters which include FAR, MID and SHORT infrared waves you can obtain up to an additional 15% health benefit This is a brief overview of the many health benefits to a sauna and its usage.
You can find a further article on all the benefits on the link below

Don’t have the room for a sauna??


The Vidalux range of sauna

If you want to protect yourself you want to do it in the best possible way.
The Vidalux range of full-spectrum saunas are designed to be the healthiest and most beneficial saunas in their class.

FACT: No other saunas on the UK market can offer the same health benefits


DIY installation – From un-boxing to first use with the hour for some models


Click build design


Fast delivery


Use in your own home


Leading design and features


Full-spectrum heaters and chromotherapy lighting



Read our full article on why we believe our saunas are the best HERE

Symptoms of the Coronavirus

Although the media regularly uses the term "the Coronavirus", the more accurate term is COVID-19.
This stands for "coronavirus disease 2019" and reflects the fact that "the Coronavirus" is actually one of a group of several Coronaviruses.
Many of these Coronaviruses regularly circulate amongst humans and cause little more than a mild inconvenience.

HOWEVER, as is the case with this particularly nasty version of the virus, COVID-19 is proving to be a nasty and potentially fatal infection, especially concerning to those in ‘more at-risk groups’.
The elderly and those with other existing health issues, especially respiratory illnesses or immune system deficiencies are at a much greater risk of a high level of complications if infected.

So its really import we recognise the symptoms not only to protect ourselves but to limit spreading the virus to others

The main symptoms of the Coronavirus are shown below, almost 88% of people reported fever, 67% a dry cough followed to a lesser degree fatigue and sputum production

"Sputum is produced when a person’s lungs are diseased or damaged.
Sputum is not saliva but the thick mucus – sometimes called phlegm – which is coughed up from the lungs"


The trouble with COVID-19 is that other reported symptoms can include anything from the standard symptoms of mild cold and are therefore easy to dismiss (e.g. a cough, a runny nose and/or a fever).
Some people also experience vomiting and diarrhoea.
While these can also be symptoms of many other conditions it’s super important not only to be vigilant, it’s also important to stay protected and to stop symptoms escalating and to most import to stay calm.

While the pandemic is active, if you experience any known symptoms, you should not immediately visit the doctors or any hospital (unless the symptoms are unbearable and you need immediate attention) but you should use the telephone services in your areas as not to risk spreading the infection, as worrying as it might be, you should also be aware with the list of common symptoms, be aware that it could be something else entirely.

How the Coronavirus spreads

As previously mentioned, there are different forms of Coronavirus.
The current form causing the alarm is known as COVID19.
At present, it is believed that this is only transmitted from humans to humans, not from humans to animals or from animals to humans.
There are other forms of the Coronavirus which may be transmitted between humans and animals, for example, SARS-CoV-2 (severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2).
However, this does not seem to be the case for COVID19.
Current guidance is that people who are infected with COVID19 should limit contact with animals, including pets, as a precaution.

It is believed that the main way the Coronavirus spreads is through respiratory droplets


In other words, "coughs and sneezes spread diseases".
It is also possible that the Coronavirus can survive on surfaces, at least for a short while (initial beliefs are 72hrs), which means that, in principle, you might be able to get the Coronavirus by touching an infected surface and then touching your mouth or nose (and maybe your eyes), despite this, it is highly unlikely to be the main way the virus spreads.
The main method of the virus spreading is through person to person coughing, sneezing or contact

The Coronavirus and temperature


The fact that many common viruses are most prevalent during the colder months has led to speculation that the arrival of summer may help to curtail the Coronavirus.
At present, however, this is a potential ray of hope rather than a guaranteed fact.
As with much to do with COVID19, this question is still very much under investigation.

I personally believe, at best, it may have a marginal effect on slowing the virus, however, with the virus still showing experiential growth rates even in warmer climates and countries AND with previous coronavirus outbreaks being spread all throughout the warmer months, the evidence of a highly impacting and substantial slow in the spread is patchy

Basis steps to protecting yourself against the Coronavirus

Reducing your chances of being infected by the Coronavirus basically comes down to three steps:


Keep your distance from other people as much as you can.
(The recommendation is 2 meters or 6ft)


Wash your hands as often as possible (Avoid touching your eyes, nose, and mouth with unwashed hands)


Clean and disinfect high-touch surfaces (e.g. doorknobs) and launder clothes on the hottest possible setting.



Understanding hand washing


Soap is a detergent.
It cuts through grease.
Hot water is a disinfectant.
It kills germs.
Hand sanitizer is usually based on alcohol and is also a disinfectant.
Soap and water is better than hand sanitizer if you need to clean your hands of visible dirt and is better at killing a virus.

Both soap and water and hand sanitizer can kill germs but they tend to kill different sorts of germs.
The CDC recommends soap and water for protecting against COVID19, but if this is not available it recommends using a hand sanitizer which is at least 60% alcohol.

Regardless of whether you’re using soap and water or hand sanitizer, you need to wash your hands for sufficient time and with appropriate action.
Here is a video to help.


Knowledge is Power


Its a cliche of course though in this case, it’s true.
There has always been and always will be disease and viral outbreaks, the Spanish flu that lasted from January 1918 through to December 1920 has an estimated death toll of anywhere from 17 to 50 million, and possibly as high as 100 million, with more than 500 million infected, making it one of the deadliest epidemics in human history.
An epidemic of SARS affected 26 countries and resulted in more than 8000 cases in 2003 which was another, earlier coronavirus and killed nearly 800 people

That is not to scare you, its to give prospective, as time passes we have become better equipped to deal with and understand these outbreaks.
The birth of the internet puts knowledge right in front of us

My advice to anyone would be to, first make sure your getting information from a trusted source, read up on any virus, understand it and learn how to best shield yourself and your loved ones.

Then I advise taking a break………

There will be information overload and no doubt you will be getting information on the news, in the papers and from friends and social media with everyone now being an expert.

First, before you read the personal stories of others, do the research to understand it, take the required steps and then move forward


