
COVID-19 treatment: Hepatitis C drugs may enhance remdesivir


The four drugs that were effective at boosting the benefits of remdesivir were paritaprevir, grazoprevir, simeprevir, and vaniprevir.

Those drugs synergized with remdesivir.
This means that they increased remdesivir’s effectiveness at reducing viral replication by "as much as 10-fold."

"Combined use of remdesivir with PLpro inhibitors for the treatment of COVID-19 could be a game changer for [people] with COVID-19 who are not vaccinated," says study author Dr. Adolfo Garcia-Sastre.

Dr.
Kris White, an assistant professor of microbiology at Icahn Mount Sinai in New York City, NY, believes that the new research could "produce a highly effective antiviral cocktail."

Chris Coleman, an assistant professor of infection immunology at the University of Nottingham in the United Kingdom, told

Medical News Today

that this research has "multiple positive aspects."

"Targeting two steps of the viral replication means you hit the virus twice, making it less likely that the virus will mutate to escape the treatment," he explained.

Dig deeper into the health topics you care about most.
Subscribe to our facts-first newsletter today.

Although the combination has much potential, researchers say that there is one major roadblock to overcome: Remdesivir is not an oral drug.
People receive it intravenously in a hospital setting, so a doctor would not be able to simply write a prescription and send a person home for treatment.

It can take 30 minutes to 2 hours to inject remdesivir.
Additionally, people typically receive it daily, and treatment can last for 5–10 days.

Administering the medication only in a hospital setting poses a number of problems.
Not only would it be less than ideal for people who are ill to travel to receive treatment, but it would also be less accessible due to cost and travel constraints.

"Our goal is to develop a combination of oral drugs that can be administered to outpatients before they are sick enough to require hospitalization," says co-corresponding study author Dr.
Robert M. Krug.

Dr.
Jonathan Stoye, a virologist at the Francis Crick Institute in London, U.K., told

MNT

that he finds the results promising but that more work is necessary.

"This interesting study seeks to identify novel strategies for the therapy of COVID-19 using combinations of FDA-approved, repurposed drugs originally developed against other viruses," said Dr. Stoye.

"It clearly demonstrates that drugs targeting the protease of HCV in combination [with] remdesivir show synergistic inhibition of SARS-CoV-2 replication."

"However, although these results are promising, they seem rather preliminary since the mechanism by which the drugs synergize is not established.
In particular, the true target(s) of the protease inhibitors remains poorly defined."

For live updates on the latest developments regarding the novel coronavirus and COVID-19, click here.


