
COVID is a manmade bioweapon


(I have links to almost every point in this comment.
I just cannot post multiple links in a comment.)

CV19 is a bioweapon and it has connections to the US and Fauci.
It is a base strain of COVID mutated to include orthologues (genes) from SARS, MERS, and HIV.
That is a pretty extraordinary claim, so what other information from other sources might support this claim?

Details:

1) North Carolina science article from 2015 talking about SARS experiments (Fauci funded).
2)Taiwan says the virus is made in a lab and gets immediately kicked out of the WHO.
3) Letter to the President and Homeland Security claiming it is a bioweapon with Sars and HIV components.
4) Harvard Professor gets arrested a few weeks after the outbreak: As chair of Harvard’s chemistry and chemical biology department, Charles Lieber is the most high-profile of the three.
According to the complaint, Lieber lied to both the Department of Defense and the National Institutes of Health about his affiliation with the Wuhan University of Technology, or WUT, and his involvement with China’s "Thousand Talents Plan," a program designed to recruit Chinese ex-pats and foreign scientists to China.
5) DOJ arrest report for Harvard Scientists.
One person was the Harvard department head.
The second person was a Lieutenant in the Chinese Army.
The third tried to smuggle 21 vials of a biological substance out of the country.
6) The Wuhan lab has connections to North Carolina, The Unveristy of Texas and Harvard.
7) Obama and Biden funded the lab in Wuhan with $3.7 million: 8) Trudeau in Canada funded the same lab with $800,000: 9) Fauci is connected to Hillary.
Look at emails 4379 and 4755 from him about her in WikiLeaks.
10) "Dr. Fauci Gave $3.7 Million to Wuhan Laboratory… Something Is Going On" – Rudy Giuliani Drops a Bomb on NIAID Director Dr. Tony Fauci

Then further consider that the Democrat Party helped the spread of the virus via:

1) Pelosi telling people to go to Chinatown — spread the virus on the west coast 2) DeBlasio telling people to go out in NYC — spread the virus on the east coast 3) Then when numbers were significantly dropping over the summer, riot over fake racism to continue the spread.
4) All to cripple a Trump economy and force fraud by mail.


It is funny how they will not report or briefly report all the connections there are to the Wuhan lab.
It is like in the Weinsten case.
Close to 20 women had their claims thrown out.
The MSM ignored this.
There should be discussions on why women lie so much.
Talk shows.
But no, there never is.
There should be segments on all the links to American labs.
But no, there never is.

I like how you brought up Harvard and then Texas.
I agree with you.
I think the Texas arrests happened because of what they found out at Harvard.


I remember the Chinese national getting arrested for trying to smuggle the virus out of the country.

Meanwhile…


It is man-made and it is now clearly being used for the purposes you stated, but why did they infect every country in the world including their own people?
I think it was designed to be a bioweapon but the way that it spread everywhere suggests that it got out of their hands.
The CCP clearly knew about it spreading in Wuhan which is why they locked-down Wuhan completely but allowed people from there to go everywhere else in the world.
China blamed US soldiers for the virus initially and I think their plan was to infect US soldiers to claim that the virus originated in the States and that it’s got nothing to do with China, but they messed up when it got out and weren’t able to contain it.
It’s also helped them crack down on the large Hong Kong protests.


think FOX-DIE and metal gear


